Enugu State Peoples Democratic Party Campaign Council has described Labour Party (LP’s) allegations of planned violence and rigging of the March 18 gubernatorial election as crying wolves where none exists. The PDP said it is not in its character to resort to violence and rigging of election, adding that LP had just revealed its evil agenda against the people of the state. The party compared LP’s action to a guilty man running when no one is pursuing him. It, however, thanked the LP for letting out and confirming to the world their nefarious plot to unleash violence on the people of Enugu State, as was declared by the LP senator-elect for Enugu North senatorial district, Chief Okey Ezea, which the PDP noted. The PDP said it was instructive that the LP was yet to condemn the “do-or-die” threat by its mouthpiece several weeks after. The campaign council spoke yesterday through its director of public communications/spokesperson, Nana Ogbodo. It said the fever, which had come over the LP since it recorded some unexpected and fleeting victories in the National Assembly Elections through a bandwagon effect of the presidential election would be cured by the discerning Enugu State electorate on March 18. Ogbodo said, “We won’t condescend to join issues with the Enugu Labour Party, which has been understandably unable to manage its unexpected success at the 25th February National Assembly election. It is a fact that whatever victories they scored were not predicated on the strength or popularity of their candidates, most of whom are either perennial losers or unknown quantities, but rather on the popularity of one man, who will not be on the ballot on March 18. “It is also instructive that even Peter Obi, for whom the people actually deferred to, has categorically urged the electorate to eschew party definitions and vote for candidates with proven competence, capacity, and character, which the PDP candidate, Dr Peter Mbah, epitomises. “In any case, we thank the Enugu LP for letting us into their grand designs to unleash terror on Enugu people and massively rig the electoral process as announced by the LP Senator-elect for Enugu North Senatorial District, Chief Okey Ezea, who declared the forthcoming governorship election in the state as ‘a do-or-die’ affair. “However, we are to assure them that we have petitioned the Inspector-General of Police over that deadly threat by Chief Ezea and that Enugu people will come out en masse to vote for Dr. Peter Mbah and the PDP in a peaceful atmosphere and that their votes will count. Enugu people will never surrender to their threats and evil designs”, the PDP stated. The PDP further called on the Inspector-General of Police and the heads of other security agencies not to spare any troublemaker plotting deaths and mayhem in the forthcoming governorship and State House of Assembly elections in the state. 