Delta Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has lamented that it is not the will of God that the chapel in Aso Rock will be closed for four years as a result of the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Okowa spoke yesteray at a meeting with members of Isoko Church Leaders Council held at God’s Fountain of Life Mission, Oleh, Isoko South local government area of the state, pleading that is time for people to truly pray and to encourage the church of Christ to continue to pray. “I believe that this is the time for us to dwell in the light of God so that His will be done in our state and in Nigeria. This is the time for us to rise up in faith and not time to mourn. The church must be prayerful, cautious and have to think from inside. “It is my prayer that the chapel in Government House, Asaba, will remain to the glory of God,” the governor said, adding that the church should continue to pray for the state and nation. On the outcome of last Saturday’s elections, Okowa said  the exercise was compromised, adding that the outcome of the election was not the will of God. “We saw the manipulation of the election coming and the church of Christ prayed against the situation which we have just found ourselves” Okowa said. While appealing to religious leaders and Deltans to rally round the PDP gubernatorial candidate in the state, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori in the March 11 gubernatorial election, he urged them to vote for all the PDP candidates for the Delta State House of Assembly in various constituencies across the state. While thanking members of the forum for the opportunity given to him to talk to them, Okowa said Sheriff Oborevwori was a God fearing man, adding that he had the needed experience to inspire more development in the state. According to him, the speaker of the state House of Assembly and PDP candidate in the state would consolidate the tempo of infrastructure and human capital development recorded in the state by his administration if elected as governor. Also speaking at the ceremony, the speaker of Delta State House of Assembly and PDP candidate in the state, Sheriff Oborevwori solicited the support of the church and religious leaders in the state towards his victory in the March 11 election.