 Henkel Nigeria has appointed prominent business leader, Guy Murray-Bruce, as well as economist, Bismarck Rewane, to its advisory council. The appointments come in the wake of the company announcing the set-up of its inaugural advisory council. Both Advisors have a strong business acumen and are well-known in Nigeria for their respective areas of expertise. In press statement, made available to LEADERSHIP, the chairman and managing director of Henkel Nigeria, Rajat Kapur, said: “I am delighted to have such professionally distinguished Nigerians on our Advisory Council. We are confident that we will be able to leverage off of both Bismarck Rewane and Guy Murray-Bruce expertise to make a bigger and more sustainable impact here in Nigeria.” Reacting to his appointment as a member of Henkel Nigeria’s Advisory Board, Murray-Bruce said: “I am honoured to join the Advisory Council of Henkel, a responsible company that I hold in high regard. Their support for youth development and the entertainment sector, which I am also a part of, makes this partnership particularly meaningful to me.” On his part, Rewane added: “I have taken my time to look at the Henkel brand. It’s global operations and standards are qualities no analytical mind can ignore. I am there glad to be associated with such a brand and its positive impact on the industry and society in Nigeria.” Guy Murray-Bruce a passionate leader with first class communication skills, and a long track record of successful management. He is able to drive performance improvement whilst at the same time delivering growth. Bismarck Rewane is the managing director and chief executive officer of Financial Derivatives Company. He has more than 30 years of experience as an economist, banker, and financial analyst. Henkel Nigeria provides thousands of jobs across the country with an estimated contribution of around 5,000 direct and indirect jobs through an extensive local distributor network. Through this Advisory Board, Henkel reinforces its long-term commitment to social, technological, and economic progress, which is an integral part of its spirit of pioneering innovations for the good of generations. 