The Middle-Belt League of Professionals In Democracy has endorsed the South-East geo-political zone and indeed, a former Abia State Governor and current Senate Majority Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, for the Senate Presidency of the 10th National Assembly, stressing that edging out the zone will further fuel tensions and suspicions that the Igbos no-longer matter in Nigeria’s scheme of affairs. The group also stated that denying the South-East the position at this critical time in the history of Nigeria, having lost out in the contest for the Presidency, will give credence to speculations that there is a grand design to further marginalise and render the zone politically impotent. In a statement signed by the president of the group, Bulus Timothy (Plateau) and Secretary, Tanko Ayuba (Nasarawa), it called on the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the President-elect, Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu, to prevail on all other geopolitical zones to unanimously cede the office to the South-East for equity, fairness and inclusivity, adding that “although we hear that the South-South wants to take a shot at it which is their right in constitutional democracy, however, we are of the strong opinion that this is the time to heal and not to further deepen disunity and mutual suspicion. “We most sincerely plead that the party prevails on them to consider a zone that currently witnesses a high level of restiveness believed to be as a result of perceived deliberate attempts to shut them out.” The statement continued, “We are aware that the South-East have about two ranking and returning Senators; Dr Orji Uzor Kalu and Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe. But because Senator Kalu is of the APC, the cap fits him as the most appropriate, he right and proper person for the job. “His experience both as Governor and as current Majority Whip of the Senate places him in the right position and we urge all Nigerians of good conscience to ceede this exalted office to the zone as a political solution to the problems facing that once peaceful zone. “We are confident that ceding the number three office to the South East will give the people a sense of belonging and calm down frayed nerves. It will place on them a responsibility and commitment to always protect the country, see themselves as first class citizens and eventually persuade them to put down their arms and embrace the Government of Nigeria as it was in the inception of democracy in 1999. “As a group interested in justice and equity, we have looked at all sides of the matter and, without mincing words, have come to the conclusion, without any fear or favour, that the stability of Nigeria at this moment should be much more important to everyone and, as stakeholders we must do those things that will promote peace and unity of this country at all times. We believe that all lovers of democracy must make the necessary sacrifices that will give us peace and stability. “We have no-doubt that the President-Elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his party will adopt the original zoning of political offices in 1999 where the President was from the South West, his Deputy North East, Senate President South East, Speaker North West, Deputy Senate President North Central, while the Deputy Speaker was from South South. We are confident that the peace we enjoyed and sense of belonging we saw should be replicated.” The group reiterated its commitment to fairness, all-inclusive Nigeria and urged the APC to unite Nigeria by zoning more offices to Christian-dominated States as a demonstration that the news making the rounds of a possible one-faith state was a ruse.