 The traditional ruler of Yaba Chiefdom in Abaji Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Alhaji Abdullahi Adamu, is dead. A member of the deceased’s family, Shuaibu Abdullahi, disclosed that the late Etsu of Yaba Chiefdom died while on his way to observe Magrib prayers within his palace on Thursday evening. Shuaibu said the 62-year-old monarch suddenly slumped and his aides rushed him to Abaji General Hospital where he was pronounced dead. “Immediately he slumped, and they moved him inside the car to the hospital. But unfortunately, on arrival at the hospital, doctors confirmed him dead.” The traditional ruler has been buried according to the Islamic rites. The minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Bello, who led a delegation of FCT Administration officials and traditional rulers to the funeral prayer for the late Etsu Yaba, described him as an upright leader who worked tirelessly for the wellbeing of members of his community during his lifetime. “The late Etsu was a selfless leader because he never relented in pursuing projects which will bring development to his community and the entire FCT. We pray that God forgives his shortcomings and grants him Ajanna Firdaus,” he said. He expressed his deepest condolences to the people of Yaba chiefdom and Abaji Area Council as a whole over the loss of the well-loved traditional ruler. Speaking also, the Chairman of FCT Traditional Council of Chiefs and Ona of Abaji, HRH Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, described the late Etsu as a peace-loving man who contributed immensely to the development of the FCT Traditional Council of Chiefs and the Yaba chiefdom. He prayed that God forgives the deceased and urged all his well-wishers to pray for the repose of his soul. The FCT Minister was accompanied to Yaba Chiefdom by members of the FCT Traditional Council of Chiefs, officials of the FCTA, and heads of security agencies in the FCT. Similarly, the FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has described the late traditional ruler as a mentor who has inspired many in the discharge of his traditional duties. In a condolence message she signed personally, Aliyu said, “It is with great sadness that I learnt of the death of our royal father, the Etsu Yaba, HRH. Late Alhaji Abdullahi Adamu, the 10th Etsu of Yaba. He was a true ruler who served his subjects and the descents of Yaba with love and distinction.”