Catholic Bishops, under the auspices of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria (CBCN), have called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to avoid plunging Nigeria into an avoidable crisis, by promptly taking adequate steps to address the issues of concern, before announcing the presidential election result, to defuse tension and in the interest of the common good. President of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria (CBCN), Lucius Ugorji, in a statement yesterday, said of the general elections of February 25, that no matter how long it takes, INEC must ensure that it does the right thing now, to ensure that the sanctity of the collective will of the electorate is not violated, and to restore the confidence of the citizenry in the government and its institutions. According to the CBCN president,, it is no use running when one is on the wrong road. “For a very long time now, we have been praying for peaceful, transparent, and credible elections as well as an accurate transmission of their results. We thank God, who in His infinite mercy, has continued to save our country Nigeria from chaos, anarchy, and doom. “Before the general elections of February 25, 2023, Nigerians were assured both by the federal government and by INEC that enough electoral reforms and preparation had been made to ensure that the sovereign will of the people would be accurately reflected in the conduct of the elections. ‘Hence, people trooped out in their numbers to cast votes in order to freely choose their next President and representatives at the Senate and Federal House of Assembly. Unfortunately, the experiences of many voters on Election Day were a far cry from the hitch-free exercise that was repeatedly promised.” According to him, in many places, certain persons reportedly compromised the gains that were expected from the innovations of the new Electoral Act just as the delay in the electronic transmission of the results of the polling units to the INEC Results Viewing Portal before their announcement at the collation centres had raised suspicion in many minds about the transparency of the entire process. “There is, therefore, palpable tension in the air and agitations not just by some political parties but by a cross-section of the Nigerian population.  At this time, when the nation is standing at the edge of a dangerous precipice, INEC must live above board to avoid plunging the nation into an avoidable crisis. Finally, we appeal to all Nigerians to remain calm, law-abiding, and fervent in prayers,” he stated. The Catholic Bishops further urged the leaders of political parties to exercise restraint, while Nigerians give INEC the time to prove that it is still worthy of their trust. On his part, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III led Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), has asked the federal government to put its relevant agencies on alert against political and religious actors  attempting to truncate the process of the last Saturday presidential and National Assembly elections. JNI, in a statement issued yesterday, called for restraint, noting with serious concern “how some politicians and even some religious figures are bent on scuttling the election process with their misguided inciting utterances and threat.” The statement, signed by its secretary-general, Sheikh Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, expressed worry that inflammatory statements and venomous commentaries being peddled, while collation of the Saturday elections is ongoing are tantamount to overheating the polity. It therefore asked the federal government and the security agencies not to lower their guards  due to the current apprehension. It said: “We strongly believe that there are processes and procedures provided by the constitution and the electoral act for those who disagree with the outcome of the election result process wholly or partly to seek redress. “We would equally like to remind all political gladiators that there must be a secured and peaceful Nigeria first and foremost before it is well-governed, which they all surprisingly aim for. “As a religious body we have noted with serious concern how some politicians and even some religious figures are bent on scuttling the process with their misguided inciting utterances and threat which are anti critical ethor bullies aren’t the way to go in a democratic setting.” “On the other hand, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should go ahead with its statutory duties, with all sense of patriotism and due diligence until the electoral process is concluded. INEC should be reminded that its loyalty should be to the Federal Republic of Nigeria not any vested interests.” 