Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has declared the lsoko Federal Constituency Election, Delta State inconclusive. In a fiercely contested election between Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Social Democratic Party (SDP), the final result could not be completed because election did not hold in Ewhe ward. According to INEC a new date for rerun will be fixed. Meanwhile, the senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), for Delta South senatorial district in Saturday’s national assembly election, Hon. Thomas Joel-Onowakpo, has called for the cancellation of results in the district over failure of INEC officials to use Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) for the conduct of the election. Joel-Onowakpo accused the PDP of conniving with officials of the electoral umpire for flagrantly violating and failing to comply with the Electoral Act 2022 by failing to use BVAS in the accreditation of voters during the election. In a letter on Monday addressed to the Delta State resident electoral commissioner, the APC candidate alleged that the election in the district was marred by electoral malpractice and violation of the process.
The APC candidate specifically demanded for the cancellation of election results in Isoko-North, Burutu, Warri-South, Warri South-West Warri-North and Bomadi local government areas of Delta South senatorial district. The letter signed by Joel-Onowakpo’s Clark Ekpebe, said any election that falls short of section 47(3) of the Electoral Act, 2022 will not be accepted by the party and her candidate. It read, “Our client is the candidate of the All Progressive Congress in the Delta South senatorial district election held on 25th February, 2023 and by virtue of that, he is in possession of copious evidence of grievous electoral malpractice and malfeasance perpetrated by his opponent in the Peoples Democratic Party in the above listed local government areas in reckless violation of INEC guidelines and the Electoral Act 2022 particularly the provision of section 47(2) of the Act, which provides for compulsory and mandatory use of BVAS for accreditation of all voters before they can vote. “To clear any doubt, section 47(3) of the Electoral Act, 2022 specifically states that: ‘BVAS shall be the only mode of accreditation for the purpose of the election. All voters are subject to it before they are issued with ballot papers to vote.”