 A United States based university don Sir Kefas Lamak has advocated for effective national security system in Nigeria to curtail terrorism and banditry which have regularly increased in the north, the Middle Belt and some parts of southern region of the country. In an exclusive interview with LEADERSHIP Friday in Jos, Lamak said in the history of Nigeria, the country’s security, stability, and freedom has never been threatened, endangered, and tampered with like in the last few years adding that it is clear on the faces of ordinary Nigerians that they are helpless, having faced continuous insecurity challenges. Lamak lamented that there are Nigerians in different states across the country whose ancestral homes have been taken by terrorists and bandits, especially villages noting that this category of Nigerians are helpless in all facets of life because they have no direct access to people in authority or means to report to the International community when their lives are endangered. “So, they are voiceless and helpless. Last, there is  limit to how they can defend themselves even when they are being attacked by terrorists and  bandits. Most victims of terrorism live in IDP camps with nothing, and only food provided in the camps as the current security challenges are not improving,” he added. He said, “Should Nigerians flee their homes, villages, and cities because their lives are no longer secure? Should they continue to live in fear even in their ancestral homes? The solution to terrorism and banditry is to have many well-equipped security professionals in every community or provide the community with a functional and equipped security network”. Lamak also alleged that Nigerian politicians, only protect their families and children with the best professional security personnel while neglecting ordinary man or woman on the street. “I implore leader at all levels to think profoundly and seek a working security solution for the Nigerian masses who voted them into offices because they deserve a better living. The country cannot make any progress if it is not made safe for tax-paying citizens,” he said. The university don also disclosed that it is disturbing to see how the international community turned a blind eye to what is happening in Nigeria for years, as if Nigeria does not belong to the United Nations. “When crises occur in other parts of the world, they immediately respond to those regions and nations. Nigeria dearly needs them now. I know they have contributed material support to victims of terrorism in many parts of Nigeria. The material support is much appreciated, but the ordinary Nigerian wants them to intervene like they have been doing in other parts of the world,” he said. He argued that people in Plateau, Kaduna, Zamfara, Katsina and Benue among others want to feel secured in their homes, workplaces, and religious centres. 