You projected Tinubu winning the presidential election with Kashim Shettima as running mate shortly after he picked the former governor of Borno State and there were fears that the APC will die after Buhari’s presidency. Now that the party has consolidated on its gains, do you see the party capturing more states in the gubernatorial election? I am not a soothsayer but as a realist, you must come to terms with my predictions that have come out to be true reflections of the outcomes in the polity. It is not only about common sense but in-depth knowledge in the amphitheater. In this regard therefore, there are always distinctive differences between briefcase politicians and us realists. Whatever the formulae used during the presidential election will not fly at the Sub-Regional elections which are grass root entrenched. I can assure you the APC as the largest political Party in the Sub-Saharan Region and has become an enduring Party for the future and it shall undeniably win the governorship elections in all the states it governs at the moment and will go ahead to win more to its present 19 states participating at the March 11, 2023 elections. It is very simple as there is greater dynamism in the approach for Presidential and Governorship elections, taking cognizance of the fact that they are sub-regional governments. The APC is deep rooted in all the States it controls and have extended tentacles beyond its boundaries for the betterment of all Nigerians and enthronement of bequeathing democracy.  You are the pioneer national vice chairman of the APC in the North East. What will be your advice to the president-elect? The President-elect has said it all during his acceptance speech and during the occasion of the presentation of the Certificate of Return. He has extended hands of camaraderie to all those who have participated with him in the just concluded Presidential election and to even those who have what to offer to better the lives of the citizenry and build a viral Nigerian State. My wise counsel to the President-elect is to ensure a reward system for the loyal and hard working party men and women who have diligently distinguished themselves to the enthronement of APC governments and show of loyalty to the party since inception in 2013. He should equally consider more youths and young women in governance. Furthermore, I suggest that there should be a deliberate policy for a participatory governance where all citizens will take it upon themselves as participants in the project Nigeria, where we will collectively build a Nation that our children-children will be proud of and to drastically eradicate the brain drain which thrives.  Delay in appointment is one of the reasons attributed to the Buhari presidency’s shortcomings. What is your advice to the president-elect when it comes to hitting the ground running? When President Muhammadu Buhari was elected in 2015 he contended with issues of amalgamation and the accommodation of all the political parties and interest groups which came together and formed the political party – APC that took over government from the PDP. That indeed took part of his first year in office but, I am sure the delay did not suffice in 2019. His Excellency Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu has just won the 2023 presidential election and I am very sure, he will heat the ground running immediately after May 29, 2023. He has been more of an observer since leaving office as Lagos State Governor in 2007 and has taken note of where to fix and the personnel required to carry out designated directives to achieve indispensable results. I wish to use this medium to assure Nigerians that President Tinubu when sworn in on May 29, 2023 will surprise Nigerians by making some far reaching decisions that will reflect wider Nigerian interest.  Most of the votes in the election were divided along regional lines, only Tinubu had a spread in most of the regions. What is your advice to Nigerians? The spread of the votes of Tinubu speaks volumes of his nationalism and as leader who have invested in human resources across different strides and opinions of the Nigeria State even as the then Governor of Lagos and as a statesman. Others who used other means and primordial sentiments must be burying themselves in shame as Nigerians have grown past primordial and other mundane issues capable of further polarizing Nigerians. It is unfortunate and condemnable that some politicians still fall for sentiments to achieve their desired goals. I call on Nigerians at large to continue to throw out all those who use other means of ascension to power than obvious democratic norms.  What is your assessment of INEC in the just concluded election and your advice for  future elections? INEC has done its best under the prevailing circumstances. The major bane to the exercise and as it affects the 2023 general election is the deployment of technology which has been so epileptic and in some areas nonexistent. For INEC to get it right, the Nigeria Telecommunication Commission must step up its services not only for the 2023 elections but for all other services and most particularly the Banking system in Nigeria. I also wish to use this medium to call for a hitch free Governorship and House of Assembly elections and pray fervently to God The Almighty to endow us with the requisite wisdom to come out of the elections safely, more united and stronger. 