Bauchi State chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hamza Koshe Akuyam, has described as malicious and unfounded the alleged shootings in his Akuyam village home and Duguri the birthplace of Governor Bala Mohammed by the campaign team of his party. He described the allegations as mere waging of war by the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, in his futile efforts to sway the electorate ahead of the 18th March elections. Addressing a press conference in Bauchi on Sunday night, Akuyam said, “Some of them are malicious and unfounded allegations which I saw the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Air Marshal Sadique Baba Abubakar was waging on the social media.” He said, “Yes, there was shooting in Akuyam, yes, one person was killed the day he went there. Yes, there was shooting in Duguri, one person was killed the day he went there. “Yes, he forgot to tell us that there was shooting in Toro, there was shooting in Warji, there was shooting in Darazo and even Alkaleri, he did mention that. And he said that he was elsewhere and there was no shooting, when he decided not to shoot, who will shoot. “He was the person that was shooting and killing people, that is what we don’t want in Bauchi State, what is happening now is an alien politics that he is bringing to us, but I am not surprise considering his background, he is not a politician, all his life what he knew was how to kill and kill which he has started here in Bauchi State. “He even stayed at the Palace of the District Head of Akimam for hours, so, if the people of Akuyam were confrontational, will they allow him to stay there for an hour, so, if he doesn’t know what to tell people, what lies to concoct and tell people of the state, he should be honourable enough to tell the real truth, not to kill our people”. He said that they have reported this to the police and that the police have taken statements, but yet nothing was done, saying that was what encouraged him to go and do it again. “When he went to Duguri, he came and displayed two dane guns which he claimed they were able to recover from the people of Duguri. “What in a nutshell I want to tell you is that, this man is economical with the truth, let him tell us what he is in for, is he here to win the support of the people of Bauchi State and win the governorship or to kill those he can kill,” Koshe queried. Abubakar had on Friday evening while reacting to the multiple attacks on his campaign team in some parts of the state, especially in Duguri and Akuyam, said, “I believe that by the special grace of God the Almighty Allah, Insha Allah we will win this election, we will dismantle this structure that has been so unjust to so many people.” 