 The Borno State Police Command has paraded 50 suspects for looting varieties of goods belonging to traders at Maiduguri Monday Market during a fire incident in the early hours o Sunday. A statement issued on Wednesday to journalists in Maiduguri by the Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Sani Kamilu Shatambaya, said on February 26, 2023, information was received of the unfortunate incident of fire at the popular Monday Market in Maiduguri, the State capital. He said on receiving information of the incident, the Police Command mobilised its men to the scene in order to forestall looting and breakdown of law and order while fire fighters engaged in arresting the inferno for over eight hours before it was fully contained. He said during the course of the inferno, 50 suspects were apprehended along with their looted items, adding that they were in Police custody undergoing several investigations and will subsequently be charged to court. “Similarly one Sadiq Ibrahim “m” aged 20yrs of Gwange Layin Tanki was arrested in connection with destruction and burning of a Civilian JTF Hilux Vehicle, with body registration number 001 attached to Sector 3. “The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained and properties worth billions of naira were consumed by the inferno. However no life was lost.  it is also important to note that the inferno has affected the market police out-post and has partially touched the branches of First Bank and Polaris Bank domiciled inside the market. “The command is hereby urging the well-meaning individuals who might have been affected by the inferno to come and claim their properties. “Borno State police command sympathises with the State Government, the Shehu of Borno and the entire Market People who were in one way or the other affected by the incidents. The command is equally calling on them to exercise patience and remain calm, as the Federal government, State Government, North East Development  Commission and other relevant agencies are doing all it takes to come to their aid,” said PPRO.