Anambra State governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, has accused members of the opposition parties in the state of fabricating videos and posting them on the internet to malign him. Soludo, who spoke through his press secretary, Mr Christian Aburime referenced two videos currently making the rounds on the internet where a former commissioner for Commerce, Trade and Industry, Dr Christian Madubuko led some youths in making alleged derogatory comments against the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), government in the state and another where he (Soludo) was quoted to have said that he would not work with any opposition member of the state assembly. Soludo rather explained that Madubuko and the youths were not actually attacking his own APGA-led administration but that of his immediate predecessor, Chief Willie Obiano. He stated that Madubuko is even currently an appointee in his administration and that he had even issued a press statement to clarify that he has no issue with the current Soludo-led APGA government but the immediate past administration. LEADERSHIP Weekend, however, recalled that Madubuko actually had issues with the Chief Obiano government, a development that forced him to resign his appointment with the government. He was thereafter kidnapped and held hostage for several weeks. Soludo, according to his media aide, also denied ever saying that he would not work with any member of the state assembly who is from opposition parties. Concerning the second video, Aburime also said: “That video is heavily ‘doctored’ by members of the opposition party just to spite the governor. “Everyone knows that the governor is a pure democrat. He is ready to work with any member of the House of Assembly, even if they are elected from other political parties, so that is not true. “Members of the opposition have gone to a high length to cause disaffection between Governor Soludo and the people of Anambra State, but they will not succeed. “Anambra is an APGA state and the people are happy with the performance of the governor so far, and they are ready to vote for APGA candidates in the forthcoming election.” 