The Borno State governor Professor Babagana Umara Zulum has commended his counterpart from Yobe State Hon Mai Mala Buni for his efforts on identifying with the people of Borno State at any trying moments. Zulum made the commendation when governor Buni led a high-powered state delegation on a sympathy visit to the government of Borno state over the fire inferno that destroyed the major market in the state, Monday market. The governor stated that Buni has since inception been working very hard to commensurate or rejoice with the people and government of Borno State whenever something good or contrary happened. “Your Excellency, you and your government have identified with us during our trying moments and Happy times. “You always visit to commensurate with us whenever we are in sorrow such as attacks on our communities or disaster. You have demonstrated in different ways that what touches Borno equally affects Yobe hence we cannot thank you enough for that. “You have practically strengthened the strong bond between the people of Yobe and Borno states that has spanned for over three centuries” Zulum said. The governor equally commended Buni for donating the sum of N100 million to victims of the inferno, assuring that the state government will deliver the message to the victims accordingly. Governor Buni while speaking on the purpose of the visit said, “On behalf of the government and people of Yobe state, I am here to commiserate and express our heartfelt sympathy to the government and people of Borno state over the sad and unfortunate fire incident that razed the famous Maiduguri Monday Market. “The Maiduguri Monday Market is no doubt an international business hub that provides sustainable means of livelihood to millions of people including neighbouring states and countries,” he said. “This sad incident is happening at a time when the people and state governments in the Northeast region are recovering their economy from the protracted Boko Haram security challenge. “Our sincere heartfelt sympathy goes to our brothers, the victims, the business community, the people, and the government of Borno state,” Governor Buni added.  He used the forum and announced a donation of N100 million to the victims of the fire disaster.  