 Teachers from across Yobe State have described the agricultural loans approved by Governor Mai Mala Buni as the major farming support that will not only enhance their wellbeing but food security across the state. The Yobe State governor,, had last week approved the sum of N500 million Agricultural loans for distribution to 4,000 teachers across the State. A teacher at the Government Senior Secondary School Damaturu, Mallam Suleiman Tamali said the gesture would not only boost food production but also enhance the economic status of the benefiting teachers. “These are some of the major things that those at the helm of affairs should be focusing their attention on. The agricultural loan will, apart from engaging teachers after school hours, will promote food sufficiency. Also Ishaku Adam of Government Secondary school Kumagana said, “This loan will revive the lost glory of agriculture in many ways. “We have agricultural teachers that are working hard to inculcate the spirit of farming in the minds of our students and this is an avenue to tell them that even the government values farming as a means of livelihood. “If a teacher can stock his store with foodstuff produced from his or her farm, I am very sure his mind will remain focused on his job,” Adam stated. The governor had in a statement issued by his director of Press Affairs and Media Mamman Mohammed said the loan, which will be distributed in two phases, was to equip the teachers to prepare and participate in the 2023 cropping season effectively. Each of the 4,000 teachers is to receive the sum of N120,000 to engage in agricultural production. Governor Buni advised the beneficiaries to use the support judiciously for the intended purpose. The facility, which is to be granted by the Yobe Microfinance Bank, is to be redeemed within 24 months through the Yobe State Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. Dr. Sheriff Al-Muhajir, Managing Director of Yobe Microfinance Bank, said the project is at the final stage and would be provided before the commencement of the rainy season. “We are prepared and working on the last stage before the disbursement of the loan.” 