The BAT Television has called on all Nigerians to join hands with the next administration in moving Nigeria forward by shunning violence and divisive rhetoric capable of threatening the unity of our country. It also congratulated the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the successful conduct of the 2023 Presidential and National Assembly Elections on February 25, 2023. Making the call yesterday in Abuja at a press conference, the co-founder of BAT TV, Maryam Ahman said despite pockets of logistical challenges, we affirmed that INEC surmounted most of the challenges to give Nigeria and Nigerians credible, free, and fair elections. She said each of the top three candidates was the leading vote-getter in 12 states, a remarkable first in Nigeria’s modern political era, reflecting the diversity of views that characterized the campaign and the wishes of Nigeria’s voters. “We are optimistic that the commission will continue to improve the electoral process, especially with the next round of polls coming up on March 11. “Regarding the success of the President-Elect, we congratulate our principal Asiwaju Tinubu and are glad that we contributed our quota to his victory. “We believe that the positive image we used our platform to project about him during the electioneering will be sustained now that he is Nigeria’s president-in-waiting and in the subsequent months to come when he will be sworn in as President”. Speaking further, she said as a cross-platform digital television, we will continue to create digital content about the person and work of Asiwaju Tinubu, while further serving as a means of galvanizing public support for his presidency from May 29, 2023.    “As Tinubu has already said in his acceptance speech, we do not doubt that he would be a government for every Nigerian, irrespective of class, political affiliation, and social belief.   “We also want to hold out an olive branch to the other three frontrunners in the presidential race – Alhaji Atiku Abubakar (PDP), Mr. Peter Obi (LP), and Dr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso (NNPP) – for their courage and unflinching belief in Project Nigeria,” she said.  