It is not uncommon for people from various walks of life to move from one profession to the other. But eye brows are usually raised, when famous movie stars who bring smiles to millions of fans around the world announce that the have been called by God to become “labourers in the Lord’s vineyard”. Over the years, some Nollywood celebrities have taken a break from the silver screen to the pulpit.In this piece LEADERSHIP Weekend puts the spotlight on eight Nollywood stars who became preachers.  Veteran Nollywood actor Charles Okafor, can be considered as one of the pioneer’s in the Nigerian movie industry. However, Charles Okafor has been under the radar for a while, untill he disclosed some years ago, that he is now an ordained pastor preaching the word of God and converting souls for Christ. In an interview with Journalists a while back he said; “ive been lying low for a while because I diverted into Advocacy and human-angle films as a consequence of my new found faith. I’m still a career actor and a film maker but I am mindful of the scripts I do. A time come in the life of any professional when he seats back and takes stock of his professional issues and the legacy he want to live behind from the spiritual stand point of view. “You cannot just do any kind of film anymore if you’re going to be the light to the nations of the world. We must be seen in the context of the things that glorify God in totally,”. “I’m driven to do advocacy films because they address social issues, human angle and spiritual issues that borders on the kingdom. That explains why I might not be as visible as I was some years back. “I have put my hands to the plow so I shouldn’t look back but that those not remove the fact that I’m still a career actor and film maker.” Okafor added.  Zack Orji is also a veteran Nollywood actor,who is now a preacher.On why he became an ordained minister of the word he said, “In 2012, I accepted to be ordained as a man of God. “When my pastor approached me with the offer, I gladly grabbed it without questioning. “Even before my ordination, I had been receiving invitations from different places to come and minister,” he noted. Orji further said that when the offer came from his bishop to be ordained, he didn’t reject it. “I accepted, took it whole heartedly,” Orji noted. “I get excited when I have opportunity to speak to people, inspire them and draw them closer to God,” he said, adding that his roles in the movie industry has been greatly affected by his ordination. He later devoted his life to God and became a full-time evangelist and a pastor at the Power Line Bible Church. Although he is an ordained pastor who evangelises within and outside Nigeria, he still acts movies but carefully selects his roles.  Veteran Nollywood actress, Patience Ozokwor popularly known as Mama G is another prolific actress who has made a name for herself in the movie industry.The Nollywood actress, disclosed that she nearly fell out with her daughter when she answered God’s call to go into evangelism to win souls for God. According to the actress, at first it was difficult to reconcile with her daughter over her decision to honour the call by going into evangelism immediately. While preaching at the Power House Interdenominational Worship Centre Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, during the grand finale of the church’s 40-day fasting and prayer program she said, “God called me to work for him and I obeyed immediately. When I answered the call, my daughter queried me. She asked why I decided to go into evangelism and I explained to her. She misunderstood me and we had issues. She has been spotted at several church programmes preaching.She also was spotted at St. Peter’s Anglican Church, Alaba, where she spoke about how God arrested and called her to do his work.  Liz Benson was a popular actress in the 90’s.She played major roles in many movies and TV series including a popular soap opera called “Fortunes”. She got ordained as an evangelist and currently runs the Freedom Family Assembly in Warri, Delta State with her husband, Bishop Great Their marriage is blessed with three lovely children namely; Richard, Lillian and Rosel  Pat was also a director, television personality, model, and musician. He became prominent in Nollywood in 1993 upon graduation and rose to popularity in 1994 after a stellar performance in the movie ‘Glamour Girls’. Just when we were savouring his goodness, Pat became a born-again Christian in 2015 and relocated with his family to Germany to begin his new direction in life as a man of God. He preaches often and even uses social networks sites such as Facebook to spread the Word of God to everyone.  Eucharia Anunobi is a popular Nollywood actress who came into limelight for her role in the movie series Glamour Girls in 1994 and has gone on to star in over 100 movies including Abuja Connection and Letters to a Stranger.She was ordained as an evangelist at the Fresh Oil Ministry, Egbeda, Lagos. She now preaches as a pastor and counsels youths in the church.  Majid Michel is a Ghanaian,but was a main stay in Nollywood.He publicly announced that he has given his life to Christ and will no longer be seen on romantic movies. Although, he did not completely quit acting after becoming born-again, he only became selective of the kind of movies he acts in.On 4 October 2016, he was a guest minister at a local church where he shared the word and performed deliverance on people. Speaking to Joy F.M in Ghana, Majid described his new spiritual life as “genuine and inspired from his understanding from the Bible”  Anayo Modestus Onyekwere is a Nigerian actor popularly known as Kanayo O Kanayo. In 1992, Kanayo made his Nollywood debut film appearance in the film Living in Bondage.Kanayo has starred in over 100 films. He was one of the guest ministers, at a crusade held at the Christ Mission Worldwide (CMW) a.ka. Mission for Heaven, with the theme: “Powers of darkness cannot stop me”. 