Initially, it started from the Northern part of Nigeria, but nowadays, so many Nigerians have also gone into the kilishi business because of huge profits attached. Kilishi has been proven to last longer on the market shelves when it is well preserved as it can last longer before consumption. Findings revealed that, in ancient times,  Kilishi, as a beef snack, was invented as a way of meat preservation with no refrigerator in existence back then. To this end, they deployed the method of drying the meat while adding all necessary spices to it. When there is a need for it, it is eaten without the need to cook them all over again. However, the business is predominantly operated by northerners (Hausas), although, investors from other regions are gradually investing in the business.  Business Capital Speaking with Adamu Yusuf, a 43-year-old man who is a specialist in making and selling Kilishi, said: “asides from the beef, the seed capital of the minimum amount to invest in a Kilishi business is about N100,000 as this capital will go to buying the smoker or grilling machine for the beef grilling depending on the individual’s choice. Finding the right location for the display of the Kilishi, he said, will attract customers to the product as it is of immense importance to sales and making a profit as well. According to Yusuf, it is imperative to make use of modern equipment in making Kilishi as this is a better hygienic way to get it prepared while taking into account the health of the consumers.  Equipment The tools for Kilishi business include; Grilling Machine; Knives for cutting the beef into fillets; Plates; Forks;  Condiments; Brush and so on.  Starting the Business Learn the Business: The first step is knowing how to make Kilishi as it is important to know how it is prepared so the individual can start a profitable beef jerky snack business in the country. One needs a first hand experience on how to make Kilishi – all the processes involved, such as;  cutting meat, drying the meat, spicing, and roasting. Grilling Equipment Purchase: After this, the next stage is for you to plan and buy the equipment you will be using in making Kilishi as it is important for it to be done in a hygienic ways and form. Buy the condiments: This is important as it makes the Kilishi taste better, spicier, and peppery when applied to the beef to make the Kilishi. They include, garlic, cloves, ginger, salt, dry cayenne pepper seeds among others.  Kilishi Processing Yusuf explained that the beef must be cut into very thin fillets if it has not been done by the butchers and all traces of fat taken out as well. To him, “thereafter, you can proceed to use of the oven, while temperature of the oven should be set at the highest possible and the timing as well. “Also, sprinkle a tiny quantity of salt on the fillets of beef and spread them around. You only need a tiny quantity and you can skip the salt altogether.  The oven tray should be lined with a baking sheet and the pieces of beef lay flat on it. The beef can be baked for 15 minutes and flipped on both sides every five minutes for even drying. “After 15 minutes, bring out the beef from the oven and brush the Kilishi all over them, making sure that both sides of the beef are well covered. “In the core north, the way they do it is to dry the fillets of beef in the sun for 2 days, then, soak them in the Kilishi spice solution and spread them in the sun (on flat raffia baskets) till they dry.” Location: The spot to sell this grilled kilishi is very important to making a success or failure in the business.  Business Prospects It is a business that has transcended from one generation to another as the art of kilishi making is a source of income for most northern families as well as a new generation of people who have veered into this by packaging it for export.