 National chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, declared yesterday that the party is set to re-enact its winning streak at the governorship and state Houses of Assembly polls billed for March 11. He said the governing party has learnt some basic lessons from the presidential and National Assembly polls, noting however that as a party, APC cannot win some states even though they had wished they won them. Adamu stated that Tinubu’s victory in last Saturday’s polls was a testament of the fact that the former Lagos governor  is the preferred choice of Nigerians with nationwide support. Speaking at the APC national secretariat in Abuja, Adamu described last Saturday’s victory as “the triumph of democracy”. He said, “By the grace of God, just as we won the presidency we’re going to win. I wouldn’t say all (the states) because APC is not a greedy party. We will win all the ‘winnable’ and will make some sacrifices where necessary so that democracy can flourish,” he said. But when reminded that the party lost in some of its strongholds, he said, “We have learned some basic lessons on what has happened, but we appreciate the fact that we cannot win some states of the Federation that ordinarily, we would have wished we won them.   ”The fact that we lost them, or God gave us the ones that he blessed to deliver Mr President to the APC we are more than grateful to Almighty God.  We will do what we need to do and will not hesitate to do what we must do to ensure success in the governorship and House of Assembly elections.   ” It’s the nature of things, you win some you lose some and the fact that we lost some major states, like Lagos, Kano, Katsina and even Nassarawa, Kaduna, you cannot be talking about democracy about the evenness of representation at the same time looking for you must win everything.   “The fact that we lost this place and we didn’t shed tears. We did not cry foul, make us the real political party in this country.   “What moral justification is there for a party that won Lagos and felt it was a good game? And loses at a place like Ekiti and they said the game is a bad one, it doesn’t make sense    “With the strategic position of Lagos, strategic in terms of location, population in terms of economy in terms of political history and prestige, we lost and we didn’t run the street crying but what’s important is we got what we want, we got the presidency. They are gnashing their teeth, you can all see, it shows the level of immaturity, selfishness and lack of sense of judgment.”  