Gunmen numbering about 20 on Friday night at about 11:30pm invaded Grow Homes Estate along Kuchibiyi in the Kubwa area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and kidnapped about nine residents of the Estate including women and children. A resident of the Estate, who identified himself simply as Hassan, explained that the victims were kidnapped from two separate apartments in the estate and that the incident had caused panic in the community. ”Yesterday, at about 11:30pm, some gunmen in their large number came to carry out an operation at Grow Homes Estate along Kuchibiyi. We heard the sound of gunshots, there was panic in the entire community as a result of the incident. “This morning, we went to the estate and we learnt those gunmen were about 20. They moved from one apartment to the other dispossessing residents of their belongings. They also kidnapped at least nine persons including children and women from two apartments in the estate. “They escaped through the bush which linked the community to Paze village. The police and the estate security have been searching the bush since morning to see if they can rescue the kidnapped residents,” he said. The spokesperson for the FCT Police Command, SP Josephine Adeh, while confirming the incident, said that the Police and the estate security were combing the bushes in the area to ensure the victims are rescued. “Upon receipt of the distress call, we immediately deployed our men to the scene. The suspects however abruptly suspended their operations and took some victims with them into the bush. “Operatives of the Police and the estate security are still combing the bushes in the area to ensure they are rescued unhurt,” she said. She urged residents of the area not to panic, calling on them to help the police with credible information that could lead to the arrest of the assailants. “We urge the residents to remain calm and assist with useful information that could lead to the swift arrest of these criminals,” SP Adeh added.