As the world celebrates women, it is essential that women in Nigeria become economically empowered and contribute to the development of the country. International Women’s Day (IWD), which is celebrated yearly on March 8 since 1911, has become a day set aside for companies to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women, while speaking out against inequities including gender-based violence and workplace discrimination. The UN’s theme this year is ‘DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality’ and it seeks to celebrate women’s achievements, raise awareness about discrimination and take action to drive gender parity. To this end, 2023 IWD celebration built on the global theme, Embrace Equity. The topic highlights not only how technology is crucial to advancing rights, but a growing digital gender gap that is impacting everything from job opportunities for women and their safety online. Financial independence means having the ability to support oneself financially without assistance. Being financially independent is an important goal for people of all backgrounds, but it is particularly important for women who have historically been marginalised by the job market. Financial awareness and money management skills can lend women a deeper sense of security that makes it easier to save and invest for the future. An understanding of the challenges, advice and resources available to help can facilitate the process. According to Afrinvest Limited, despite facing significant challenges and obstacles, women are increasingly pursuing careers across industries. They are breaking down barriers and paving the way for future generations of women to follow in their footsteps. “Today is a good time to gear up our amazing women on how to be self-sufficient and have something tangible to fall back on in case of unexpected events or emergencies. Whether it is a career, a savings account, a financial asset, real estate, or a side hustle, having a backup plan can provide peace of mind and financial security.” An entrepreneurship & business management expert, Dr Timi Olubiyi, said that “Nigerian women have an exceptional opportunity to reach financial independency, and it all comes down to investing in themselves, trusting their instincts and establishing their own business. Yes, there will always be a struggle when you want to start working on your own. But if you invest in yourself and your knowledge, plus you never give up, the benefits can be amazing. That is why it is a great idea to start focusing on financial independence, as it is an extraordinary goal.” Ways Women Can Be Financial Independent Educate yourself: Start by understanding your finances and the various investment options available to you. Learn about budgeting, saving, and investing. There are plenty of resources available online, including books, podcasts, and online courses that can help you get started. Develop a budget: Budgeting is a crucial tool for managing your finances. Start by tracking your income and expenses and identifying areas where you can cut back. Save regularly: Make it a habit to save a portion of your income every month. Set up automatic transfers to a savings account or investment account to make it easier to save consistently. Invest wisely: Investing your money is one of the best ways to build long-term wealth. Consider investing in a diverse range of assets, such as stocks, bonds, and real estate. Consult with a financial advisor if you need help getting started. Build multiple income streams: In addition to your primary job, consider developing additional income streams through side hustles, freelance work, or passive income sources like rental properties or dividend-paying stocks. Plan for retirement: Make sure you are contributing to a retirement account and that you have a plan for how much you need to save to achieve your retirement goals. Protect your assets: Make sure you have adequate insurance coverage, including health, life, and disability insurance, to protect your assets and income in case of an unexpected event. 