Ahead of next Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly elections in Plateau State , the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang, has alleged plans by the APC administration in the state to bounce back through rigging during the election. According to him, they must rise up as a people and resist them using every lawful means at their disposal. “I urge everyone to take responsibility by encouraging every registered voter around them to come out and vote. After voting wait till the votes are counted, announced and uploaded on the BVAS machine,” he said. He advised the people to watch out for agents of violence who have been sent to foment trouble in order to get the results of their polling units canceled and create situations of over voting, adding that only accredited voters by BVAS machine must vote. Mutfwang while addressing newsmen in Jos said in a season like this, God-less politicians and their agents would deploy lies, mudslinging, character assassination, misrepresentation, mischief and other immoral strategies as tools for propaganda. He said the APC knew that they cannot come near victory unless they take them out of the ballots, stressing that since they had no project to commission, they commissioned their paid agents to spread falsehood and fabricated existence of a court judgment that they claimed would deny the PDP ultimate victory. “Let me assure the good people of Plateau State that this alleged victory snatching judgment only exists in the figment of their imagination. They will not succeed in their mischief. All the cases regarding the legitimacy of the PDP exco for Plateau State have no bearing whatsoever on the primaries that produced PDP candidates,” he said. According to him, another lie fabricated out of their factory is the allegation that as a former Chairman of Mangu Local Government Council allegedly failed to pay salaries of workers for 10 months and challenge them to release the documents or be prepared to meet him in court. 