The Ohanaeze Ndigbo has expressed optimism that the Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi, would reclaim his mandate in court. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the presidential election held on Saturday, February 25. Following his defeat, the LP presidential candidate, Peter Obi approached the election tribunal to challenge the victory of Tinubu. Speaking with newsmen, the national publicity secretary of the organisation, Dr Alex Ogbonnia, stressed that Ohanaeze is prepared to go the full length with Peter Obi in his quest to retrieve the mandate freely given to him by Nigerians at the polls. According to him, Nigerians from across the country believed in the LP candidate’s message and mantra that a new Nigeria is possible, hence, their overwhelming support for the Obi-Datti ticket. He applauded citizens for coming out to vote massively for the Labour Party candidate despite the intimidation and harassment. “I’m happy Nigeria is moving away from political apathy to a participant political culture. It is a plus because in the third world, Political participation has been a problem and you could see that they participated actively. They couldn’t be suppressed or intimidated. They rather defied all the threats from all the external forces and came even under sunshine and rain. They stood strongly and expressed their wish through their votes. We were impressed because in the past, they did not have confidence in the electoral system and to that extent, there is this political apathy. But they came out fully and voted,” he stated. Dr Ogbonnia highlighted that Peter Obi is a meticulous person whose personal conviction might not be called to question, indicating that the former Anambra State governor would emerge victorious at the end of the day. According to him: “I have confidence in that because when he was deprived of his victory sometime in Anambra State, he struggled and assured people that he would recover it. Later on, he recovered that mandate. The same way, it is like history repeating itself. “Anybody who has known Peter Obi will know that he is always sure of whatever he is doing. He is conscious of whatever position or decision he is taking. He is not a man of frivolities or a man who takes decisions anyhow. He takes a thorough review of his decisions before making it public.” 