Ekiti State government has assured the residents of Oke-Ako in Ikole local government area  of its support as rainstorm destroyed over 105 buildings in the community. The evening torrential downpour, which lasted for over two hours, also destroyed some electricity infrastructure across the town, thereby plunging the area into darkness. Last Saturday, Governor Biodun Oyebanji,  while on-the-spot assessment of the destruction done by the rainstorm, condoled with the residents and described the disaster as very devastating. Oyebanji who was represented by his deputy, Mrs Monisade Afuye, was conducted round the affected areas by the Regent of the town, Her Royal Highness Ogunbiyi Tinuade Adebayo, the lawmaker representing Ikole Constituency 2, Hon. Adeoye Aribasoye and the chairman of Ajoni local council development area, Hon. Michael Ogungbemi. A statement by the special assistant media to the deputy governor, Victor Ogunje, quoted the governor as expressing delight that no life was lost during the rainfall. “On behalf of His Excellency, Governor Biodun Oyebanji, I sympathise with you on the destruction caused by rainstorm to many residential buildings and electricity poles in this town, which we believe must have affected the wellbeing of the victims. “Information at our disposal and on- the- spot assessment revealed   that roofs of scores of residential buildings and electricity facilities  were destroyed during the stormy rainfall, thereby rendering many homeless and helpless. “We sympathise with the victims at this trying time and plead for calmness, in the sense that a natural disaster of this nature is one occurrence that is difficult to control. But with personal precautions and right efforts, its effects can be minimised. “That was why the Governor Oyebanji’s administration is ready to support interested individuals  to go into tree planting and the programmes will soon be rolled out to safeguard our environment and minimise havocs being  wrecked on our buildings by rainstorm.