Following the crisis rocking the collation of presidential and National Assembly (NASS) elections, an Islamic human right group, Muslim Rights Concern ( MURIC) has warned against the disruption of the ongoing elections results collation process. MURIC’s director, Professor Ishaq Akintola while addressing newsmen on Tuesday declared that there should be no repeat of  June 12, 1993 presidential election. It condemned attempts to disrupt the collation of 2023 presidential results and charged politicians  to give democracy a breathing space. While urging losers to take graceful exits, he urged  winners to be  magnanimous in victory, saying “In actual fact, there are no winners and vanquished in a national election of this nature.” He added, “The real winner is Nigeria so long as we allow peace to reign. May N8geria survive”. In a statement tagged: “No To June 12”, he said,  “This is another June 12 loading. “Like Arthur Nzeribe headed for the court in 1993 to stop the announcement of the result of the June 12 election, the agent of the main opposition and his cohorts who stormed out of the collation centre is allegedly for a court injunction to stop proceedings at the collation centre,” he said. According to him, this is exactly how the June 12, 1993 election was annulled by the military, anybody who supports this move is dragging Nigeria back to the Stone Age, “We say no to another June 12.” The group denounced the “unsolicited and jaundiced intervention of former President Olusegun Obasanjo who called for the cessation of the collation of results. “We are nonplussed that a main beneficiary of democracy failed woefully to respect democratic process. “Obasanjo’s call is sacrilegious. It is a rape of dem9cracy. It is an attempted coup”, it added. MURIC said “Obasanjo’s sanctimonious facade comes crumbling down against the background of his role in the enthronement of Musa Yar’adua as president. “The latter himself admitted that he was rigged into office. Now we know it takes a rigger to see rigging even in his sleep. Obasanjo is desperate because his anointed candidate has not performed well at the poll. “His intention is to force him on us. Obasanjo wants to reap by the bend what he could not get by the straight”, MURIC said. 