 Grassroot leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in Isaba kingdom in Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State have described the emergence of the party’s Presidential candidate, President-elect, Sen. Ahmed Bola Tinubu and that of Delta South Senatorial District, Hon. Joel-Onowakpo Thomas, as a new dawn in the political history of Nigeria and Delta South Senatorial District in particular. While congratulating Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Hon. Joel-Onowakpo Thomas on their election victory in Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly polls in a media chat in Warri, on Wednesday, former Delta State House of Assembly aspirant on the platform of the APC, Engr. Jude Akpodubakaye, noted that the President-elect, while he was governor of Lagos state provided multiple housing units for the poor, made large investments in education and also reduced the number of schools in the state by returning many schools to the already settled former owners. Engr. Akpodubakaye who was full of praises for Isaba kingdom, commended them for their peaceful conduct during the presidential and national assembly elections in the area, with specific reference to the efforts of local security team on ground for their show of maturity and understanding. He urged the electorates in Warri South-West Local Government Area to come out enmass on March 11, 2023 to cast their votes for the APC governorship candidate, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, whom he described as brilliant, dependable and grassroots-oriented leader with an enviable track record at the National Assembly. The APC Stalwart maintained that having the Deputy Senate President and incoming Governor of Delta State in Government House, Asaba and the President-Elect at the Seat of Power in Aso Villa Abuja, come May 29, 2023, Delta State will experience unprecedented rapid socio-economic development, as against the current man made pains inflicted on the state by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) -led administration that has put the state into in a mess in the past decades with nothing to show for. On their part, Isaba APC Ward chairman, Ambrose Bramor, Isaba Ward leader, Julius Kendabor and Isaba Leader, Raymond Barkumo, on behalf of the people of Isaba kingdom in Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State congratulated the  President-elect and Senator-Elect.   They expressed the hope that the emergence of Ahmed Bola Tinubu and Hon. Joel-Onowakpo Thomas will certainly ursher in a a new beginning in Nigeria and Delta South Senatorial District in particular.  