A cross-section of chefs, caterers and homemakers have commended how Terra Jollof Cubes has been simplifying the process of preparing Jollof rice for them. In a statement by TGI Group, makers of Terra Jollof Cubes, a housewife and mother of 3, Mrs. Eunice Udoma,  who lives in Agege,Lagos, stated that while there are several ways of preparing Jollof rice, however, everyone agrees on its end point – a great extraordinary taste and flavour. She said, “I have always sought to achieve that extraordinary bottom pot taste of jollof rice I eat at some parties at home. I always get close to achieving it but never spot on. My friend at work introduced Terra Jollof Cubes to me and since my first try, I have never missed having a pack of Terra Jollof Cubes in my kitchen cabinet.” Another customer in Kano, Hajia Halima Audu said, “Addition of Terra Jollof Cube to my pot of Jollof rice has added a remarkable taste to my jollof, leaving my family with smiling faces of satisfaction and with no single grain left on the plate.’’ The group executive director, TGI, Deepanjan Roy, said that the company is delighted with the positive feedback and is confident that Terra Jollof Cubes is achieving its objective of elevating the taste and aroma of Jollof rice across homes, restaurants and in celebratory occasions. Also, the chief marketing officer, TGI Group, Probal Bhattacharya stressed that Terra Jollof Cubes symbolizes the understanding of what consumers value in their tasty, bottom-pot, flavourful jollof rice. “We developed Terra Jollof Cubes after years of in-depth research, studying and understanding the consumers’ palate and taste preferences in various regions as well as their ways and patterns of cooking Jollof rice. We unearthed rich insights from these studies that guided us in developing the very special recipe for Terra Jollof Cube that is now being so widely appreciated by consumers. As the word of its unique impact in making Jollof so special spreads, we know more and more consumers would include Terra Jollof Cubes in their pot of Jollof rice to achieve that extraordinary Jollof experience,” he noted