 The Asake/Bashir campaign Organisations of the Labour Party (LP) has debunked rumours making the rounds that it’s governorship candidate Hon. Jonathan Asake has stepped down from the governorship race in Kaduna State. A statement from the campaign council signed by its public relations officer (PRO) Comrade Yakubu Bityong said, “this is to call  the attention of our party members, our teaming supporters in and out of Kaduna state, to disregard all lies and rumours peddled by PDP that Hon. Jonathan Asake, the gubernatorial candidate of the Labour Party for Kaduna State has stepped down from the contest for Hon. Isa Ashiru Kudan, the gubernatorial candidate of the PDP for Kaduna State. “Those who are spreading these rumours are political bandits of the PDP  who are forced to face the hard fact that Asake is the choice of Kaduna state under a free and fair election come 11th March, 2023. Asake is very hot in the contest and is not looking back despite the unkind and mean rumours spread to rubbish his hard earned good name. “We are not unaware of some groups and clergy who have compromised their integrity and calling and have collected huge sums of money from their sponsor to poison the minds of the electorates against Asake. “They have become scare mongers who are driving fear and hate in the heart of some undiscerning minds that Asake is sponsored to divide the votes of the PDP so that the APC Muslim-Muslim ticket will be retained in Kaduna State. Under a free and fair election, we don’t see where the APC will win the gubernatorial seat of Kaduna state after the destruction it had brought upon Kaduna State. “And in any case, it was the indolent, cowardly and timid way the PDP played politics that gave grounds for the APC to do what it liked with the people, assets and fortune of Kaduna state. It is the same PDP that wasted the votes of the people of Kaduna state in 2019. It is the same characters that are parading the same candidate for the 2023 elections. Our people have no confidence that the PDP has the capacity to coast to victory or after victory, sustain the victory from being snatched by the APC from the courts.  “We have identified our lapses in the February 25th Presidential election and we have taken all necessary corrections to avoid the kind of votes robbery that the Labour Party suffered in Kaduna State. The APC and the PDP know from their hearts that Peter Obi and most of our candidates for the National Assembly elections won in Kaduna State, and we are going to get back our victory from the courts.  “We are therefore calling on our supporters not to be intimidated or be deceived by anyone or groups. They should mobilise themselves and convince more electorate for a landslide victory in the gubernatorial race come 11th March, 2023”. 