Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) have called for the reform of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). According to the CSOs, the logistics challenges experienced during the election calls for reform of INEC. Speaking during the presentation of their report, the co-chair, Yiaga Africa Board, Dr Aisha Abdullahi, said the election was a fraud with logistics challenges adding that the delay in posting the election result in real time resulted in public distrust. “Once again, the 2023 elections presidential and National Assembly (NASS) elections were a missed opportunity. Factors like serious logistical and technological shortcomings, non-compliance with electoral guidelines, lack of transparency, and manipulation of election results undermine public confidence in INEC and the overall outcome of the elections. “Yiaga Africa notes that the integrity of electoral outcomes are influenced by processes and procedures. Therefore, a compromised process will produce questionable outcomes,” the report said while calling for the reform of INEC. The CSO said INEC disregarded its efforts, adding that, “INEC must be fundamentally reformed. We will be reflecting on what happened. Let’s conclude the entire process, a comprehensive report will come out,” Aisha said, adding that the results announced by INEC fall within their confidence limit. “From what INEC announced, the figures fall within our confidence limit and margin of errors,” She added. Also, the director of programmes, Yiaga Africa, Cynthia Mbamalu said as CSO, they will continue to promote democracy, urging Nigerians not to be discouraged in the process. “We will continue to ensure that strong institutions are built. We will continue to ensure democracy thrives. “We have to commend Nigerians who voted. They spent over 12 hours in the spirit of patriotism. We need to build in that and ensure that the process outlift individuals,” Cynthia said. Also, the Centre for Democracy Development (CDD) called for the reform of INEC. In its preliminary report issued by the director, Idayat Hassan, CDD said:  “Ahead of future elections, interpretations of the constitution as they relate to the requirements for a presidential winner to be declared or prospective run-off candidates to be selected should be clarified to reduce the risk of post-election contestation. Security agencies and government must also provide stronger support to INEC, which has to undertake significant logistical operations in a difficult environment, by working to address prevailing insecurity and ensuring that INEC has the financial resources at its disposal in sufficient time,” the report noted. According to the report, an independent post-election review by a group of civil society organisations that observed the election, alongside representatives from legal bodies, should be constituted to provide a report and recommendations on a way forward for continued improvement in the management of elections and the operational deployment required and the role for INEC and other key stakeholders. 