The Convener of Pro-Nigeria Group, Mr. Lai Omotola on Saturday stressed the need for efficient leadership in Lagos State, saying the state as the nation’s economic hub and major African financial centre plays pivotal roles in Nigeria’s economy. Omotola who stated this at a press conference in Lagos noted that Lagos as the backbone of Nigeria’s economy can only be governed by tested technocrats and not those who would want to use the state to experiment their administrative acumen. According to him, ‘’There is the need to save Lagos from wicked conspiracy theories prepared and attacked at the giant strides of development in Lagos. ‘’Since 1999 when we commenced our democratic journey we have had four Governors elected to lead us. From Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to Barrister Raji Fashola and Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode and presently Mr. Babajide Sanwoolu. From one election cycle to another position to the seat of Governor has been competitive and on all occasions the progressives have always come out victorious. ‘’In the recently concluded Presidential Elections the result did not turn out as expected  and a careful study of the indices have shown mistakes on our part and those mistakes will be corrected.’’ Omotola who is also the Managing Director, CFL Group said now that the gubernatorial and state assembly elections are coming up the electorate in the state must ensure that they vote in the best candidate, saying the candidate of the APC Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has demonstrated capacity. He said, ‘’We have realised concerted efforts by mischief makers to derail the development path of Lagos state. They have provided minnows as alternatives to progressive government. ‘’They are asking for a change of government not rooted in any genuine facts. For the avoidance of doubts under the leadership of Mr. Babajide Sanwwoolu Lagos is working and is working very well. There is no state in Nigeria that can beat Lagos in all areas of developmental indices. ‘’Lagos is where entrepreneurs thrive, where entertainment has been shot to the global state. This is Lagos with the capacity to carry your dreams no matter how big there is space for everyone. The London and Dubai of Nigeria come and see the wonders of Lagos in our towers to iconic infrastructure.  Lagos leads on all indices. ‘’The reason for this success is because the leadership had grown organically which means every government has been an insider and has been part of the developmental blueprint  never have we elected an outsider., ‘’Therefore if anyone is to lead this Centre of Excellence we should interrogate the person’s experience and expertise in both public and private service. What have you been able to do for yourself and state? What is the balance sheet of the company you have led. What projects have you executed that we can see? Has your competence and capacity be tested? He added that in terms development, there are no abandoned projects in Lagos   