Ebonyi State governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Prof Bernard Odoh yesterday said that he has no hand in the murder of the traditional ruler of Omege Umuezeokoha autonomous community in Ezza North local government area of the state, Ezeogo Igboke Ewa. Addressing journalists in Abakaliki, Prof Odoh expressed regret that while himself and the entire Omege Umuezokoha community were still mourning the death of their traditional ruler, the state government and the State Working Committee (SEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) wrote a petition to the police and went on air to accuse him of masterminding the murder of the traditional ruler. Odoh described the allegation as “false, cheap blackmail and a calculated attempt to destroy his reputation and scuttle his governorship ambition”, adding that he has no hand in the unfortunate incident. The APC had in a statement signed by its publicity secretary, Mr Simbad Chidi Ogbuatu accused the former secretary to the state government, (SSG) Odoh of being behind the murder of the royal father. Similarly, the state commissioner for information and state orientation, Barr. Uchenna Orji, while reacting to the death of the traditional ruler, also accused the opposition of masterminding the killing. The renowned traditional who is said to be about 80 years old was killed by yet-to-be-identified gunmen. He was said to have been murdered in cold blood at his palace at about 8:30 pm on Monday, 27th February, 2023 which has thrown the entire community into a mourning mood and panic. Reacting to the demise of the royal father, Odoh said, “It’s hard that at a time I’m mourning the death of my traditional ruler, His Royal Highness Eze Igboke Ewa, the APC government is doing everything possible to destroy my reputation.  Anybody who knows me knows my records. “I have read what was written by one Ogbuatu Chidi Simbad. I have also read the one written by the APC State Working Committee. The fact is that I don’t have any issue with HRH Eze Igboke Ewa. He was a father to me. He visited me two weeks ago after I was attacked at Ezillo. What’s going on in Ebonyi today is a political witch-hunt. “I have had a running battle with this government since I left as SSG and all of you are fully aware of it. I have been attacked seven times since we started our campaign, none was investigated including the one I lost two officers. I was attacked at Okposi two weeks ago where we have video clips of APC people with branded APC vehicles who came to attack us. No investigation was made. “Now, they have written a petition that I killed my traditional ruler, it’s not true, it’s unfounded and I don’t understand how this came about. His Royal Highness is not a politician and he is not contesting any election. “I’m the one contesting for the governorship seat of this state and those who are contesting with me are known, they are the APC and the PDP candidates. So, what’s the point? So, it’s purely a fabrication aimed at tarnishing my image by the APC government. “They are doing everything possible to distract me, but of course, I refuse to be distracted, and I’m sure by the Grace of God, we will have victory. How can I be involved in the death of a man who raised elders to curse those who attacked me. Before I took off for this political journey, I went and consulted him as my Eze and he blessed me. So, this is strange,” he said. 