A group of concerned indigenes of Enugu State under the aegis of Citizen Against Violence, at the weekend staged a peaceful protest on the streets of Enugu metropolis, demanding justice for the late 2023 Labour Party candidate for the Enugu East senatorial zone, Barr Oyibo Chukwu. He was recently killed alongside five others and burnt by yet to be identified gunmen. The protesters, who were clad in black and black attires, were led by kinsmen of the slain Labour Party chieftain who hailed from Amuri in Nkanu West local government area of Enugu State. Leader of the group and immediate past Enugu State chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Ben Nwoye called for an end to political killings in the state. Nwoye said what they were demanding was nothing but “Justice for Barr Chukwu who was brutally murdered on February 22 on his way  back from campaign.” He said the Amuri people have lost a rare gem who had contributed meaningfully to the development of the area and called for an investigation into his murder and the perpetrators brought to book. It would be recalled that since the incident occurred, there had been series of protests across the state including the one staged by lawyers. The protesters carrying placards with inscriptions such as “we demand for Justice for Oyibo Chukwu”, “What has our brother done to be murdered like a goat” urged the security agencies to fish out the perpetrators of the evil act. Before taking to the streets, they had stormed the premises of the State High Court and the Court of Appeal where they equally registered their displeasure of the killing. Some of the protesters who spoke with our correspondent decried the gruesome killing of the former chairman of NBA, Oji River branch who came out to represent his constituents under Labour Party but was allegedly murdered. Another protester who gave his name as Mr Kenneth Egbo, said “today it is Oyibo Chukwu, tomorrow who knows who will be the next?” He emphasised that politics was never a do or die game, advising the constituents to be careful of the people they vote into power during the March 11 elections.