Since 2014, Yemi Akande-Bartsch has been the CEO of FOCUS St. Louis, an organisation that focuses on developing leaders that would shape the future. Developing leaders has always been at the heart of FOCUS St. Louis’s mission and maintaining the FOCUS experience continues to be one of the organisation’s top priorities. To facilitate this, Akande-Bartsch said the organisation has built an online campus community that continues to serve the organization beyond social distancing, making the FOCUS perspective, resources, knowledge, and network available to leaders 24/7. “Historically, FOCUS has met its participants where they are today, that means where they are on their personal leadership journey and where and how they are best able to receive this training. We understand that the way people receive information is changing, as individuals are seeking learning opportunities to fit their schedules and health-risk tolerance levels,” she averred. The next for FOCUS St. Louis, is that the organisation is always growing and evolving, adding that, “Last year, we had the good fortune of celebrating our 25th anniversary – both as an organization and for our signature “What’s Right with the Region Awards. Now we are hard at work on a new strategic plan engaging our board leadership, staff, alumni, and other stakeholders in helping us to envision and chart our course for the coming years. “This year, more than 250 individuals will graduate from our leadership programs, taking with them the knowledge, resources, and networks so they can help make change not only in their own organizations, but our entire region. It’s been great to be back to in-person sessions for all our programs and to be able to offer participants the opportunity to get back out in the community so they can build face-to-face relationships. But we’ve also been grateful for the lessons and capabilities we gained from our time as a virtual learning provider.,” She revealed. The CEO said in March, 2023, FOCUS St. Louis will be wrapping up its Community Forum Series, hosted in partnership with the United Way of Greater St. Louis, which has been focused on some of the most pressing needs, which are affordable housing, jobs/transportation, and behavioral health care. “We’re also working on a new lineup of forums exploring workforce development issues, which we hope to announce soon. This is, of course, in addition to the ongoing variety of in-person and virtual opportunities we offer to our alumni and the community for leadership development and networking,” she added. Akande-Bartsch, who is a new mom, said she is enjoying and savoring every moment with her daughter, adding that “I am experiencing the world and leadership through her eyes, and it has been refreshing and simply magical. “We have all heard the quote about enjoying the journey, not just the destination. I am taking time to lean into lessons of the moment. My future personal journey is embedded in my present – and that is bringing leaders together to make greater impact,” she stated. Given the nature of leadership, it’s somewhat surprising that it can be taught, “Sit down, shut up and learn how to be a leader” seems a contradiction, but Akande-Bartsch, said, “It’s the great debate in leadership development as to which is more important, nature or nurture. I would have to say both are equally important in the development of a leader. At FOCUS St. Louis, we view leadership training as a combination of self-awareness, civic issue education, leadership development, and experiential training to amplify strengths and minimize weaknesses. “We have natural born leaders who come to us to fine-tune their leadership skills and we have others who may not be natural leaders but learn about the leadership playbook in ways that strengthen their impact at work, at play, and in community.” Akande-Bartsch’s family has roots in Nigeria, but based in St. Louis in Missouri, USA. When people ask her if she is from St. Louis, her response is, ‘I’m not from here and I didn’t go to high school here, but I did get here as quick as I could.’ One of the most fulfilling aspects of her life is her affinity for travel to new places and spaces, adding that, “I have had many, many enriching experiences that have filled me up spiritually and intellectually so that when I return home, I have a sense of the new and the possible. I come back rejuvenated and ready to take on challenging opportunities. And that’s how St. Louis came calling. “I’m happy and fulfilled to be in the St. Louis region. My focus is of course my family and FOCUS St. Louis. My family foundation is strong in that I am literally surrounded by those who love, support, and champion me – my husband Bill, our two-year-old daughter Alexandra, and two of my siblings A. Bola Akande, city administrator, City of Brentwood, and Benjamin Akande, senior vice president, Stifel Financial, and their families. And FOCUS St. Louis is a guide star for me in what can be accomplished when like-minded people put their heart into developing the world around them into a place for all.” Her best books are Lead to Win: How to Be a Powerful, Impactful, Influential Leader in Any Environment by Carla Harris, Straight Shooter: A Memoir of Second Chances and First Takes, by Stephen A. Smith, and Queen of Kindergarten by Derrick Barnes and Vanessa Brantley-Newton and her favorite podcasts is Oprah’s Super Soul and Snap Judgment. Her most recent binge watch are the Chef’s Table, a Netflix series, and a Masterclass leadership series featuring Lewis Hamilton, British racing driver. Her comfort music are Afrobeats and world music, adding that Jollof rice and pepper soup are her favourite foods.  Career and Education Background Having served as the CEO of FOCUS St. Louis since 2014, Yemi Akande-Bartsch was recently honoured as Non-Profit Executive of the Year at the St. Louis American Foundation’s 2023 Salute to Excellence in Business. Previously, Akande-Bartsch served as vice president of Leadership and Alumni Programmes for FOCUS, and had more than 20 years of experience in designing and facilitating leadership training, development, and coaching programmes. She holds a doctorate in communication (with a specialty in intercultural, organizational, and political communication) from the University of Oklahoma. She also earned two master’s degrees from the University of Oklahoma, in human relations and organizational development, and in public relations, journalism, and mass communication. She earned her bachelor’s degree in speech communication from Southwest Baptist University in Bolivar, Missouri. She serves on the boards of directors for the Sheldon Arts Foundation, Greater St. Louis, Inc. and the University of Health Sciences and Pharmacy.