The Olubadan of Ibadanland Oba Lekan Balogun, Alli Okunmade II has felicitated with the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the presidential election held on Saturday, Bola Ahmed Tinubu for emerging as the winner of the election, just as he commended Nigerians for the choice made through their votes. The monarch in a congratulatory message on Wednesday urged Nigerians and the political class especially, to ensure smooth transition of power come May this year. Oba Balogun saluted the president-elect’s tenacity of purpose, focus, determination and political sagacity which earned him the victory that could only be likened to the pan-Nigerian mandate given to the late Basorun MKO Abiola in 1993, noting that the results of the election clearly showed that the new president was strategic and meticulous in his politics. According to the monarch, “I felicitate with Asiwaju on his resounding victory at the poll conducted across the country on Saturday on behalf of my Aliiwo dynasty, my members of the Advisory Council and Ibadan sons and daughters, both at home and in the diaspora. “It must be placed on record that he threw everything into the contest and he has been bountifully rewarded. He worked very hard for his victory. A dogged fighter, consistent and resolute. Right from the primary election, he has not left anybody in doubt of his seriousness on what he set out to achieve and all praises to the Almighty Allah for crowning his efforts with success. “Even as we all savour the victory, he must be reminded of the enormity of the job lying ahead of him as the new helmsman in waiting. Nigeria is at crossroad and it is not by accident that the Almighty Allah raised him up at this time, considering his enviable track records both as an oil company worker and as the governor of Lagos State which today remains a reference point of what good governance should be. “Nigerians are looking up unto him to be the Moses of their time that would lead them out of insecurity, economic doldrums, unemployment, hunger, starvation, deprivation, darkness occasioned by epileptic power supply, infrastructure decay, fuel scarcity among other existential issues daily confronting an average Nigerian.’’ 