The Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria (ARCON), has mandated skit makers, social media influencers, bloggers, among others, to seek its approval before advertising any product or service online. ARCON noted that it has begin full implementation and regulations of un-vetted digital content as it vowed to promote decent advertising and impose consequences of breaching it. The director general, ARCON, Dr. Olalekan Fadolapo reaffirmed that every reform introduced is to ensure responsible and decent advertising on digital media platforms and also to sustain the business of advertising for sustainable growth. He explained that the laws are not regulating the digital space, but advertising contents exposed alongside skit contents on the platforms of various content creators. According to him, “the business has moved from traditional media space to the digital media space. New skills are now available, new businesses are emerging and are being done in that space,” noting that, this is not an attempt by the federal government to regulate freedom of speech in that area because there are a lot of activities in that space. The regulatory umpire further sought the need to regulate the activities of Skit Makers, Content creators, bloggers, vloggers and OAPs in the digital space while adding that, space owners should seek its approval before advertising any product or any service online. ARCON director general gave the assertion during an interactive stakeholder’s session with bloggers, skit makers and other digital content creators in Lagos. The session which held in Lagos focused on how to efficiently carry on with advertising business while ensuring compliance with advertising laws in Nigeria. He pronounced that, ARCON in line with the provisions of the Nigerian Code of Advertising Practice and the ARCON Act No. 23 of 2022, has stated that anyone caught violating the Act would be sanctioned and prosecuted in a court of law. ARCON, he stressed, will take all necessary actions, including sanctions and prosecution of violators of the provisions of the Act to ensure compliance as it begins the implementation of the full legal enforcement of the digital advertising regulation on un-vetted digital contents. Also speaking at the interacive session, a legal practitioner, Charles Odenigbo gave a detailed explanation on the provisions of the law as it pertains to advertising regulations and the consequences of breaching it. “Except for public service announcements, goodwill messages, obituaries and vacancies, all advertisements, advertising and marketing communications shall be presented for vetting and must obtain the approval of ASP,” he pointed out.