Seven days after the National Assembly elections held simultaneously with the presidential poll exactly one week ago, no fewer than 15 seats in the Senate and more than 100 in the House of Representatives are yet to be declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The commission has however declared some of the polls for the federal legislative seat as inconclusive, with plans for supplementary elections, while others were canceled due to over voting and infractions. Even though in those cases, INEC is expected to conduct rerun elections, it has however not stopped members emerging victorious from their elections beginning the process of lobbying for the offices of Senate president and Speaker of the House of Representatives. At the last count though, the ruling All Progressives Congress ((APC) is still two seats short of a majority in the Senate. And with so many seats in the House of Representatives yet to be decided, an alliance of opposition parties are still in position to deny the APC absolute majority. Before the National Assembly election, about 55 of 109 Senators were unable to get return tickets from the primaries conducted by their political parties. While some failed to secure the tickets because they were aspiring for higher political offices, others completely lost at party primaries for reasons including zoning arrangement in respective senatorial districts.  Race For Senate Presidency Begins Meanwhile, LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that the APC with the majority of seats at the National Assembly from the results announced by INEC so far is considering zoning the office of the Senate president to the South East. The office of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, it was also gathered, is likely to be zoned to the North West. As it stands, the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, who is also the chairman of the National Assembly, has won the just concluded election for Yobe North senatorial district in the North East where the vice president-elect and former governor of Borno State comes from. It was gathered that even though Lawan, one of the longest serving lawmakers in Nigeria, is still hoping to retain the Senate presidency, the odds would be against him if the APC insists on maintaining its zoning formula. The South East which also has some influential politicians like Senate chief whip, Orji Uzo Kalu, but has few lawmakers under the platform of APC that will be coming to the National Assembly, may scramble for the Senate president to come from their region. Senator Eyinaya Abaribe who left the PDP to defeat an incumbent governor under APGA for the Abia South senatorial district may also be hoping to get the opposition lawmakers to support him for the office of the Senate president since the APC does not have an overwhelming majority that would give it the advantage to install a Senate president. Also, in the South South, former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio who also will be returning to the 10th Senate, is having a lifetime ambition of becoming the Senate president. Akpabio has never hidden his interest in becoming Senate president and his election offered him that opportunity. Some see him as a contender to watch because he is a politician who has had affiliation with both the PDP and the APC. Former governor of Edo Delta, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who won his senatorial seat does not have the legislative ranking required to help him take a shot at the Senate presidency. In the North Central, Ahmed Wadada, who is coming from the opposition Social Democratic Party (SDP) may want to vie for the office of any of the presiding officers office, having been a ranking House of Representatives member in the PDP before. Wadada has an affiliation with the APC, PDP and the SDP. He will be looking up to a firm alliance in the battle for the Senate leadership. In the North West, Senator Adamu Aliero of Kebbi State is also eying the Senate president position. Aliero, a former governor of Kebbi State, has been in the Senate since leaving office as governor and has an affiliation with both the APC and the PDP. Aliero who defeated incumbent Governor Atiku Bagudu left the APC for the PDP after he was denied the ticket. He is very much in the race for the office of the Senate president even though his party is still in the minority from the results announced by INEC. From the results announced by INEC, the battle for the Senate president would likely be among Ahmad Lawan (Yobe) North East, Ahmed Wadada (Nasarawa North central), Adamu Aliero (Kebbi North West) Orji Uzo Kalu South East), Eyinaya Abaribe (North East), Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom South South) and Serieke Dickson (Bayelsa South South). Many other lawmakers may join the race, but as things stand, if the APC is resolute and could control their members, they may decide where the next Senate president would come from. “Let me tell you, the decision of who emerges as Senate President will come from the members of the National Assembly even though the party can have a say,” the pioneer North East national vice chairman of the APC, Dr Umar Duhu, told this paper. According to Duhu, selecting the Senate president is all about lobbying within the members. He noted that sometimes even if the party zones positions, some members outside the calculation end up emerging against all odds as the case of former Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki in 2015. “Certainly, the party will adhere to the principles of zoning. But be that as it may, lawmakers lobby one another. Even if the party has its preference, such a person must ensure he or she lobbies other lawmakers,” Duhu added. But some newly elected members of the National Assembly who spoke with LEADERSHIP Weekend in confidence said they will be looking forward to having a vibrant Red Chamber and not rubber stamp leadership, adding that the selection process has begun and will end in June after their induction. Meanwhile, the race for Speaker of the House of Representatives in the 10th National Assembly has begun in earnest following the conclusion of the presidential and National Assembly elections. It is too early to list all the interested lawmakers for the exalted position since the ruling APC which produced the majority of seats is yet to release its zoning formula. Nevertheless, serious political scheming and permutations are ongoing among strong political blocs in the House. Influential lawmaker and chairman, House committee on Appropriation, Hon Aliyu Muktar Betara, is said to be the man to beat in the race if speculations that he has concluded plans to throw his hat into the ring are true. The only factor that may limit Betara’s emergence is that he is from the same Borno State with the vice president-elect, Senator Kashim Shitimma, and the party’s zoning arrangement may not favor his aspiration. Despite this, Betera’s numerous supporters, according to our source, are bent on carrying on in the race irrespective of the zoningand  have already setup a secretariat to actualise the bid. Meanwhile, LEADERSHIP Weekend can confirm that ranking lawmakers from the North West and North Central zones are also in the race. Lawmakers interested in the seat including the current deputy speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase, who is from the North Central, are already lobbying the party machinery for a favorable zoning arrangement. When asked about his principal’s intention in the position, chief press secretary to Wase, Umar Puma, declined comments. He, however, insisted that Wase as a loyal party man would wait for the better judgment of the party. “It is quite early. I can’t speak on the matter. All I know is that the party will have a position on this and that is what everybody is waiting for,” Puma said. A lawmaker who preferred not to be named said those rooting for Wase believe that the party May stop Betara since he is from the same zone and state with the vice president-elect. He said they are advancing the argument that he (Wase) is strategically positioned to represent the zone in the next administration. According to the lawmaker who is from the North West, the chances of his zone (North West) have been greatly limited, and two major contenders from the zone who had commenced mobilisation even before the February 25 election may not contest. Foremost contender and majority leader of the House, Hon Alhassan Ado Garba (Doguwa), is standing trial in connection with a suspected case of criminal conspiracy, culpable homicide, causing grievous hurt, mischief by fire and inciting disturbance in his Doguwa/Tudunwada federal constituency. Also, a former chairman of the House committee on Appropriation, Hon Mustapha Bala Dawaki, who also had set machinery in motion for the contest, lost his reelection bid in his Dawakin Kudu/Warawa of Kano State. The source who is familiar with the scheming doubted the possibility of Doguwa joining the Speakership race even if he is let off the hook in the ongoing criminal trial. “You know he has always been in the press for the wrong reasons. Recently, he reportedly slapped and assaulted the deputy governorship candidate of his party in Kano. Shortly afterwards he was said to have attacked a journalist and now this. He already has personality issues, Even if he is discharged from the court today, he is not likely to join the race for Speaker; his image is tainted,” he said. However, all hope is not lost for the North West as a very close associate of the president-elect from Zamfara State, Hon Aminu Sani Jaji, who was chairman, House Committee on Internal Affair and Intelligence, in the 8th National Assembly; the current chairman, House committee on Water Resources, Hon Sada Soli from Katsina State, as well as the chairman, House committee on Land Transport, Hon Abbas Tajudeen from Kaduna State, are frantically making efforts to clinch the seat. Meanwhile, the race for the position of deputy speaker may be settled in favour of the chairman, House committee on Telecommunications, Hon Adeyemi Akeem Adeniyi. Adeyemi who is the son of late Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, is returning to the House for his 3rd consecutive tenure and he is one of the most ranking members of the APC. Adeyemi’s supporters argue that since the president-elect is from Lagos and the current Speaker is also from Lagos, the Lagos/Ogun axis has been settled. Therefore, Adeyemi who is from Oyo/Osun axis and a vocal advocate of the president-elect should take the position of deputy Speaker.   Below are the list of elected members of the National Assembly  Lagos Senate  House of Reps  Katsina Senate Out of the 15 Federal constituencies of the state, APC won 9 seats while the PDP had 6 seats respectively. They are: Ahmad Yusuf Doro (APC) Hon Ali Iliya (PDP) 3.Mashi, Dutsi Salisu Majigiri (PDP) Aminu Jamo (APC) Abdullah Aliyu. (APC) Aminu Chindo (PDP 12 Kankia, Kusasa, Ingawa, Isma’il Dalhatu Kusada (PDP)  Taraba Haruna Manu,   Plateau State 1.Plateau North (PDP) Hon. Simon Mwadkhom 1.Rt. Hon. Idris Ahmed (APC) Wase Federal Constituency 4.Hon. Beni Lar (PDP) Langtang North/Langtang South Federal Constituency. 5.Hon. Yusuf Gagdi (APC) Pankshin Kanke Kanam Federal Constituency 6.Hon Isaac Kwalu (PDP) Mikang Shendam, Qua’an-Pan Federal Constituency 7.Solomon Bulus Maren (PDP) Mangu/Bokkos Federal Constituency.  DELTA Senators  House Of Reps 1) Hon Victor Nwokolo (PDP) – lka Fed Constituency 2) Hon Erhiatake Ibori-Suenu (PDP), – Ethiope Fed Constituency 3) Mr Benedict Etanabene, (LP) – Okpe, Sapele and Uvwie Fed Constituency. 4) Ngozi Okolie (LP), Aniocha/Oshimili Fed Constituency 5) Pastor Jonathan Ukodhiko, (PDP) – Isoko Fed Constituency 6) Hon (Revd) Francis Ejiroghene Waive (APC), – Ughelli North Ughelli South Udu Fed Constituency 7) Hon Nnamdi Ezechi, (PDP), Ndokwa/Ukwuani Fed Constituency. 8) Hon Julius Gbabojor Pondi, (PDP), Burutu Fed Constituency. 9) Nicholas Mutu, (PDP) – Bomadi Fed Constituency  Adamawa Senators 1 Senator Dauda Binos Yaroe -PDP- Adamawa-South 2 Senator Cliff Abboh, PDP-Adamawa -North 3.Hon. Iya Abbas Adamawa Central PDP (Adamawa Speaker)  House of Representatives 1 Gombi/Hong  federal constituency Ambassador, Shuaibu James Barka 2 Numan/Demsa/Lamurde federal constituency. Kwamoti Laori 3 Mubi-North/Mubi-South/Maiha federal constituency Mr Jingi Rufai 4 Guyuk/Shelleng federal constituency Mr  Kobis Ari Themnu 5 Yola-South/Yola-South federal constituency Mr  Salihu Mohammed Abbah 6 Fofure/Song federal      constituency Barrister Aliyu Wakila Boya 7.Michika/Madagali Constituency Mr Zakaria Wampa 8 Mayo-Belwa/Jada/Ganye/Toungo federal constituency Mr Mohammed Inuwa Basi  Zamfara Senatorial:-  House of Representatives:-  Cross River National Assembly 3 Calabar Municipality/Odukpani federal constituency Mr. Akiba Bassey Ekpeyong LP 4.Akamkpa/Biase Federal constituency Dr.Emil Inyang APC. 7.Obubra/Etung federal Constituency. Mr. Mike Etaba APC   Anambra Senate 1).Anambra central – Victor Umeh (LP) 2). Anambra North – Tony Nwoye (LP) 3). Anambra South – Ifeanyi Ubah (YPP).  House Of Representative 2.Ayamelum/Oyi – Maureen Gwacham (APGA) 4.Anaocha/Dunukofia/Njikoka – Ozodinobi George (LP) 9). Onitsha North/South – Emeka Idu (LP) 10).Awka North/South – Prof Lilian Orogbo (LP) 11). Ogbaru – Afam Ogene (LP).  Kaduna Senate Kaduna South- PDP Kaduna Central – PDP Kaduna North- PDP  House of Reps  Edo Senate:  House of Representatives  Imo State Senate Labour Party clinched: Imo East senatorial zone, Sen Ezenwa Onyewuchi; Aboh Mbaise/ Ngor Okpala federal constituency, Mattew Nwogu; Owerri federal constituency, Tony Okere. The PDP won: Ideato federal constituency, Ikenga Ugochinyere Imo; Okigwe South federal constituency Jonas Okeke, and Ezinihitte Mbaise/ Ahiazu Mbaise Federal Constituency, Emeka Chinedu. APC won Imo North Senate, and Imo West, Sen Osita Izunaso; Okigwe North Federal Constituency, Mirriam Onuoha; Oru East/ Orlu/ Orsu federal constituency, Canice Nwachukwu; Oguta/ Ohaji Egbema/ Oru West federal constituency, Eugene Dibiagwu (APC); Mbaitoli/ Ikeduru federal constituency, Nkwerre/ Nwangele/ Isu/ Njaba federal constituency, are still inconclusive.  House of Representatives Hon. Abass Adigun Agboworin of PDP (Ibadan North East/South East); Anthony Adepoju of PDP (Ibarapa Central/Ibarapa North); Oyeshina Oyedeji of PDP (Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Iwajowa/Kajola) and Hon. Stanley Olajide Odidiomo of PDP (Ibadan North West/South West). Hon Akeem Adeyemi of Oyo Federal Constituency APC and Musiliu Olaide Akinremi of Ibadan North APC over their re-election into the House of Representatives. Engr. Aderemi Oseni of APC Ido/Ibarapa East; Hon Olamijuwonlo Alao-Akala of APC Ogbomoso North/Ogbomoso South/Orire; and Lateef Olaide Muhammed of APC Irepo/Olorunsogo/Orelope Federal Constituencies.  Sokoto Yabo/Shagari Federal Constituency  The entire there senatorial seats and ten other house of representatives seats are inconclusive.  Akwa Ibom Senate  House of Representatives: 4.Opolupm Ikpong Etteh (Eket Federal Constituency), PDP.  Oyo Senate Chief Sharafadeen Abiodun Alli ( Oyo South) Dr. Yunus Akintunde (Oyo Central) Abdulfatai Buhari ( Oyo North)  Ebonyi Senate  House Of Representative  Kwara Senate Kwara Central Malam Saliu Mustapha – APC Kwara South Arc. Lola Ashiru – APC Kwara North Senator Sadiq Umar – APC  House of Representatives Ilorin West/ Asa Mukthar Shagaya – APC Ilorin East/ Ilorin South Hon. Yinka Aluko – APC Moro/Edu/ Patigi Adamu Ahmed Saba – APC Irepodun, Ekiti,Isin, Oke- Ero Hon. Raheem Olawuyi Ajuloopin  – APC Offa, Oyun, Ifelodun Hon. Ismail Tijani – APC Baruten, Kaiama Hon. Mohammed Omar Bio – APC  Rivers Senate  House of Representatives Note: The remaining eight Constituencies are yet to be announced by INEC  Abia Senate Abia North: Orji Uzor Kalu (APC)  Niger Senate Niger South Hon Peter Ndalikali (PDP), Niger East Senator Mohammed Sani Musa (APC) and Niger North HE Abubakar Sani Bello the Incumbent Niger state Governor (Niger North) All 9 elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC)  House of Representatives 1), Abdul Buba Chanchaga Constituency (PDP) 2)Adamu Tanko Suleja/Tafa/Gurara constituency (PDP) 3) Joshua Audu Gana Mokwa /Lavun/Edati (PDP) 4) Jafaru Ali Mohammed Borgu/Agwara (APC) 5) Abdullahi Idris Garba Kontagora/Mariga/Mashegu/Wushishi (APC) 6) Ismaila Moddibo Shiroro/Rafi/Munya (APC) 7) Shehu Slow Magama/Rijau (APC) 8) Abdullahi Mahmud Lapai/Agaie (APC) 9)Saidu Musa Abdul Bida/Katcha /Gbako (APC)  Ekiti Senate  House Representatives 3 . Olusola Steve Fatoba  (Ado Ekiti/ Irepodun-Ifelodun federal Constituency)  Gombe  House of representatives Kaltungo/Shongom federal constituency: Dr Obed Paul Shehu (PDP). Balanga/Billiri federal constituency: Ali Isa JC (PDP) Yamaltu/Deba local government federal constituency: Haruna Garba (PDP). Gombe/Kwami/Funakaye federal constituency: Yaya Tongo (PDP). Dukku/Nafada federal constituency: Elrashid Abdullahi (PDP). Akko local government federal constituency: Usman Bello Kumo (APC).  Bauchi Senate  House of Representatives Kabiru Yusuf (APC) Ismail Dabo (APC) Bappa Aliyu Misau (PDP) Ibrahim Sani Tanko (PDP) Dr. Hashim Ranga (PDP) Mansur Mano Soro (PDP)  Kogi Senate  House of Representatives Okene /Ogori-Magongo Federal Constituency  Osun State Senate  House Representative. 3, Lanre Omoleye – PDP  Benue Senate  House of Representatives 2.Ohimini   David Ogewu- APC- Oju/Obi, Gwer/Gwer-west,  Yobe Senate Bade, Jakusko, Machina, Karsuwa, Nguru, Yusfari. Senator Dr Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan. (APC) Fika, Fune, Nangere, Potiskum. Senator Ibrahim Mohammed Bomai. (APC) Inconclusive Bursari, Gaidam, Gujba, Gulani, Tarmuwa, Yunusari. Senator Dr Ibrahim Gaidam.  (APC)  House of Representative. Engr Muhammad Buba Jajere  (PDP)  2.Bade/Jakusko Federal Constituency.  Hon Hassan K. Jakduwa (Ibn Jaks) (PDP) 3.Tarmuwa, Gujba, Gulani, Damaturu Federal Constituency. Hon Khadija Bukar Abba Ibrahim. (APC) Hon Hajiya Fatsuma Talba. (APC). Hon Lawan Shattima Ali (APC) Yusfari, Karsuwa, Nguru, Machina, Federal Constituency.  Nasarawa Senate Godiya Akwashiki, SDP, -Nasarawa North Mohammed Ogoshi Onawo, PDP, Nasarawa South Ahmed Wadada, SDP -Nasarawa West  House of Representatives 1, Abubakar Sarki Dahiru -Lafia/Obi, SDP 2, Abdulmumini Ari Nassarawa/Toto- APC 3 Jonathan Gaza Keffi/ Kokona/Karu -SDP 4 Jerry Umaru Akwanga/ Nassarawa Eggon and Wamba -APC 5, Abubakar Hassan Na-Laraba Awe/Doma and Keana -APC  Kano Senate    