Arsenal captain Martin Odegaard has been awarded the Premier League Player of the Month award for November and December. Odegaard was in sublime form either side of the World Cup break, as he bagged a brace against Wolverhampton Wanderers before the tournament, and following the return to domestic action he assisted Eddie Nketiah’s goal against West Ham United before laying on two more against Brighton and getting on the scoresheet himself. His six goal involvements in the period were more than any other Premier League player in that four-game period, and saw him fight off competition from Manchester United pair Marcus Rashford and Casemiro, international teammate Erling Haaland, Ben Mee of Brentford, Newcastle United right-back Kieran Tripper and Joao Palhinha of Fulham. Martin came out on top after the public’s votes were combined with those of a panel of football experts. He is the 21st different player to scoop the monthly prize as an Arsenal player, and the first since September 2019 when Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was adjudged to be the top performer. Martin is also only the second Norwegian to be named Premier League Player of the Month, after Haaland who picked up the trophy in August.  Speaking on his award, Odegaard said: “It feels great. I’ve said a lot of times this team has a lot of young, hungry players and we play so well with each other, so it’s just a pleasure to be here and to be part of what we’re doing now. “It’s a pleasure to play with them and show my qualities so I’m very happy to get this award.” It was double joy for Arsenal as Mikel Arteta won the Premier League Manager of the Month award also for November and December. Arteta landed the award after guiding Arsenal to four victories from four games over the period. It is Arteta’s second award of the campaign, having also been named as August’s top performer, while it is his fourth success during his time as Arsenal manager. The Gunners enjoyed a 100 per cent record in the two months either side of the World Cup, beating Chelsea, Wolves, West Ham United and Brighton & Hove Albion to finish 2022 in style.  Arteta came out on top ahead of fellow nominees Jurgen Klopp, Eddie Howe and Thomas Frank.  Arteta and Odegaard’s award means it is the first time since March 2015 that Arsenal scooped both awards, when Arsene Wenger and Olivier Giroud were the recipients. 