National Executive Council of the Interim Management Committee of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) has appointed Borgu LGA chairman of Niger State, Hon Yarima Kilishi Sulayman as the acting chairman of the IMC. The development was part of the resolutions reached by the statutory members of ALGON yesterday after an emergency meeting. In a statement made available to newsmen, the council revealed that the appointment was to immediately fill the leadership vacuum following the tenure expiration of the former chairman, Hon. Abdullahi Shuaibu Maje who formerly represented Suleja local government council. The NEC, during its meeting which was held in Abuja, also condemned moves made by the Hon. Kolade David Alabi-led faction to water down the existence of the IMC, to continue syphoning funds and impersonating leadership of the association whilst reiterating its position that he is not a chairman of any of the recognized local government areas enshrined in the constitution of Nigeria; hence does not have a stake in the affairs of the association in general. Reacting to a call for an emergency NEC meeting from the faction, the NEC disclosed that not only is Alabi impersonating the leadership of the association, but he has also dragged the association into his political gimmicks after being appointed as a director in the Tinubu campaign council. The NEC further alleged that Alabi, in his capacity, is disguising himself while utilizing the association and its members. It said, “We are aware of the numerous gimmicks by the Alabi-led faction to push out the narrative that the Interim Management Committee no longer exists due to the tenure expiration of Hon. Maje, it is in this light that we have unanimously agreed to appoint Hon. Yarima Kilishi Sulayman of Borgu Local Government Area, Niger State, as the acting chairman of the IMC, pending the announcement of election dates for a substantive, capable and active leadership for the association. “The emergency NEC meeting inviting chairmen, scheduled for later this week by the Alabi-led faction, is in flagrant violation of the subsisting court order restraining him from parading as the leadership of ALGON. “Let it be known that the IMC still exists and activities effected accordingly, we vow to keep fighting until we are able to retrieve back completely our association hijacked by Kolade Alabi and his cronies. We are totally undeterred by their actions as we are always ready to meet them at the level they choose to fight.” 