The deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege is determined to become the next governor of Delta State under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Delta State which was carved out of the former Bendel State on August 27, 1991 has been governed by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) since 1999. Most of the representatives to the National Assembly from Delta State have always been that of the PDP. But Omo-Agege, break that jinx in 2015 when he came to the Senate and also returned in 2019 under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Omo-Agege, who worked in the government of the PDP during the administration of Chief James Ibori, seems to have the formula of defeating the PDP. But he has only done that at senatorial district elections. His eyes are now on the bigger constituency – the entire state. The confidence the deputy Senate President has in the 2023 gubernatorial election race is unprecedented.
He seems to be having the formula of defeating the PDP in the state haven done that in 2015 and 2019. Omo-Agege, as the deputy Senate President, is facing a rival who is also the speaker of the Delta State House of Representatives, Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, who also hails from the same senatorial district with the deputy Senate President. While every political party is making it’s calculations on how to win the election, at the flag off of the APC gubernatorial campaign at St George’s College in Obinoba community in Delta North on Sunday, the APC harvested 27 leaders of Delta Unity Group (DUG) a break away group of the PDP in the state that joined the APC to work for Omo-Agege with about 25,000 of their supporters. These people are said to be the first set of defectors from the PDP to the APC.
They are: Rt Hon Mercy Almonai Isei who is a former commissioner and three-time former member, House of Representatives; Chief Judith Enamuotor – member BOT, PDP and former Commissioner; Rt Hon Daniel Reyenieju- Three-time member, House of Representatives; Rt Hon Monday Igbuya – immediate past speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly; Rt Hon Olisa Imegwu – former speaker in Delta State, and former member, House of Representatives; Hon Timi Tonye – former commissioner and former member of the Delta State House of Assembly; Hon Evans Iwurie – former Commissioner and former member of the Delta State House of Assembly; Hon Faith Majemite – immediate past chairman, Ethiope East LGA; Barr Andy Osavwota- former Executive Secretary, Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) and former Special Adviser to Governor Okowa; Dr Karo Ilolo – former Commissioner for Urban Renewal as well as Youth Development; Comrade Mike Akpobire – former Executive Secretary, Technical Education Board and Executive Assistant (EA) to the Governor on Technical Education. Others are: Chief Pius Ovbije – former Commissioner, DESOPADEC; Mr Odali Stanley – former Senior Special Assistant to Governor Okowa; Chief Felix Ndukwe – Pioneer Chairman of PDP, Oshimili North LGA; Dr Godwin Ossai – former Regional Manager, UBA; Hon Larry Eduzuka – former PDP Chairman, Ndokwa East, Chief Esere Ejifoma – former Member, Post Primary Education Board; Hon Ingo Isaiah – Special Assistant to Governor Okowa; Mr Enoch Azigbotu; Hon Ese Onota – PDP Chieftain in Udu LGA; Mr Tobechukwu Okonkwo – Senior Special Assistant to Governor Okowa; Chief Florence Akpoyibo- Woman Leader, Ughelli North LGA; Mr Debi Asifor – PDP Leader, Warri North LGA; Chief Ebimobowei Epobetebe – PDP Chieftain, Bomadi; Comrade Christopher Anthony – PDP Leader, Bomadi; Hon Eunice Okoh – former House of representatives aspirant for Ughelli South, North LGA/Udu Federal constituency; former Vice Chairman, Ughelli South LGA and National treasurer, Urhobo Progress Union (UPU), Urhobo socio-cultural organisation; Mr. White Edevbie, elder brother of Olorogun David Edevbie, the former gubernatorial aspirant of PDP. A leader of the Delta Unity Group (DUG) who is also a former speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, and former member of the House of Representatives Olisah Imegwu, said they will do their best to deliver APC in the state. Also, a former speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Monday Igbuya, said that DUG has come into APC to help develop Delta State. According to Igbuya, they joined the APC to put Delta State in the process of development as it happened during the days of James Ibori. Igbuya called on the people of the state to ensure they get their PVCs ready.
Also, a former Minister of Special Duties, Godswill Orubebe, who is also the director general of the Omo-Agege campaign council, said he was elated with the support and the revolution that took place in Delta State by the DUG. He said after Ibori, governance collapsed in Delta State but assured that Omo-Agege will bring Delta State on track of development. He said the leadership of DUG is coming to the APC to put things right and ensure they win the February 25, 2023 presidential election and the gubernatorial election. But the Deputy Senate President who is also the gubernatorial candidate of the APC in Delta State, Ovie Omo-Agege said come February 25, 2023, they are going to punish Governor Ifeanyi Okowa over non-performance in the state. According to Omo-Agege, the poor performance of Okowa in Delta State, a state that received N4.2 trillion in the last seven years and the division in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has already given his party the APC victory.
Omo-Agege said the people of Delta State are now determined to ensure that the APC win all the three senatorial districts and the governorship in order to punish Okowa.
“Come February 25, we have everything that it takes to chase Okowa out,” Omo-Agege said, adding that, “We will win them.” “How many are there that we can’t beat? We have the chance to punish Okowa in the ballot. We will chase them away,” Omo-Agege said while receiving 26 leaders of a breakaway PDP member, the GUD, who joined the APC with over 25,000 of their members. “We have the chance to win the three Senate seats. If I became governor, no senatorial district would be discriminated against. We will ensure there is equity. “We will apply our resources judiciously and fairly. Our schools will no longer be kindergarten schools.
“The struggle is to make sure we chase Okowa away and stop them from coming to power. We mean well for our people and for our state. Everyone has equal power in our party,” Omo-Agege said, adding that his time has reached being the governor. “When your time reaches, God will direct everything. Who will have believed two years before now that strong men in the PDP will join us in the APC? It can only be God. Let me thank our brothers who have seen what we’ve seen longtime ago. “This is not the Delta of our dream. N4.2 trillion have come to Delta State in the last seven years but nothing tangible to show for it. “We received more allocation than Rivers state but Wike has turned Rivers state into a construction site. Pension and gratuities have not been paid since 2015. What crime did they commit? Okowa will not pay them but he has the money to pay for his vice presidential campaign. “As we are here, minimum wage that was approved for Nigeria, in the North, states who don’t even receive allocation like Delta are paying minimum wage. Okowa is not paying minimum wage but went ahead to increase school fees.
“Look at the state of our roads. The major roads we have in this state are in a state of decay. It’s Wike that alerted us that Buhari gave them N260 billions of naira but where did the money go? Omo-Agege asked while expressing confidence he will win the Gubernatorial election in Delta.