Conceptualising a business idea in Nigeria and subsequently starting it, can be likened to a goldmine that offers an opportunity for people to tap into better livelihood and gives more freedom, fulfillment of dreams, financial freedom and can even boost your life span by a whooping 23%. Here are the top five most lucrative businesses for 2023. MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
While starting a mobile food vendor business, one needs to have learned or possess cooking skills, which will give you a sharp edge over your competitors, as you have many alternatives like eateries, restaurants, and other mobile food vendors racing to have your customers.
Your ability to prepare delicious, nice, and affordable meals will set you above your competitors. You can get this business started with as little as N50,000. ONLINE ADVERTISING FIRM
Advertising is one thing any business needs and with the social media being
the new market place, why not jump right into this business?
This has to be one of the most lucrative and fastest money wells of the new age. In 2018, almost $400 billion was spent on online advertising globally.
From blogs to social media, websites, newspapers, search engines, applications, and games, this industry is taking over the world.
Setting up an internet advertising agency will allow you to capitalize on this opportunity and generate money quickly and you can achieve this with as little as N100,000. EXPORTATION
With the current war going on between Russia and Ukraine, the price of importation and exportation just went up the roof with people finding it very difficult accessing things from their various native lands.
You may think there isn’t much to export in Nigeria, but you would be wrong. Shipping materials are one of Africa’s most profitable foreign trades.
Exporting raw goods to other nations, such as cocoa, green vegetables, vegetable oil, yam, cassava, palm oil, or crude oil, is sure to make you wealthy. These commodities are in high demand outside the country. CLEANING SERVICES
If you used to clean apartments or offices for a daily wage and are good at it, why wouldn’t you start your own business? All you need is staff to work for you or with you and cleaning products. Thus, you can offer cleaning services for office spaces, houses, and apartments. This service doesn’t come cheap these days. DATA SELLING 
A data reseller is an individual who purchases data in bulk from VTU platforms and telecommunication companies at a relatively cheap price and then resells it to customers at his or her convenient rate.
There are lots of lucrative businesses you can start up with less than N100.000 but you need to do your proper research and analysis of which category best fits you. SOURCE: www.espact.com 