The people of Kebbe/ Tambuwal federal constituency of Sokoto State, north west Nigeria are set to return their illustrious son ,Hon Prince Abdussamad Dasuki to the federal house of representatives to continue from where he stepped aside in 2019. A former member of the Sokoto state house of assembly from 2011-2015, Dasuki jnr got elevated into the green chambers of the national assembly in 2015 where he held sway until 2019 when he returned to the state to serve as Commissioner of finance under the current administration of Rt Hon Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, the Matawallen Sokoto. A  sound legislator, very loyal, hardworking, compassionate, patriotic and easy going, ever smiling young Abdusamad is a pride of his constituency. Not long ago, precisely in April 2022 he was bestowed a historical title where the whole nation was at the Caliphate to honour him with other title holders. His title was the legendary SANTURAKI of Sokoto. It was His Eminence himself, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III who found young Abdussamad  worthy and suitable for the exalted office of SANTURAKI OF SOKOTO on the 4th of April 2021. The title of ‘Santuraki’ originated from Kano Royalty and later spread to some Emirates in Northern Nigeria, including the Sultanate Council. In Kano royal titles, like Danmaje, the titleholder of Santuraki is usually a prince from the royal family and sometimes a District Head. The title is administrative in purpose and the titleholder, a prince and an inner member of the royal family, assists the Sultan in the day to day running of the Sultanate. The first Santuraki of Sokoto was late Alhaji Bello Dogondaji, a seasoned administrator and educationist. He was Minister of Education of the Federal Republic of Nigeria during former President Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida’s regime. He was also a prince from Dogondaji, from the Buhari lineage, descendants of the Shehu Usmanu Danfodiyo. He was turbaned as the first Santuraki of Sokoto by the 18th Sultan of Sokoto, late Alhaji Ibrahim Dasuki in June 1995. Late Alhaji Bello Dogondaji (popularly known as Bello E.O.), offered services and enormous contribution to the development of education in most especially Northern Nigeria. He represented Sultan Ibrahim Dasuki on various occasions, functions and events both in and outside the Sultanate activities. The late first Santuraki died on 15th May 2020. The title is carefully and  selectively given to those gifted in acts of exceptional kindness, expressed through generosity and philanthropism. He was turbaned as the second Santuraki of the Caliphate in a grand ceremony where yours sincerely and other Honurable colleagues were present, considering his generous and philanthropic activities as well his enormous contribution to the community in the areas of education, finance, and public representation. By history, youthful Abdussamad Ibrahim Dasuki was born in Sokoto on June 30, 1978. He is the 13th of the 27 children of His Eminence, the 18th Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji (DR) Ibrahim Dasuki. Abdussamad belongs to the Malam Buhari Dan Shehu ruling family of Sokoto Caliphate and is a thorough-bred professional with vast experience in the public and private sectors. He had his primary education at the Federal Staff Primary School, Sokoto from 1984 and finished in 1990. He then proceeded to Nigerian Military School, Zaria for his secondary education in 1991 and finished in 1996. Abdussamad got admission into Nigerian Defense Academy, NDA, for active military training in 1997 but left NDA in 2000 to University of Abuja and graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Economics in 2004. A firm believer in continuous improvement in life and learning, continuous education became part of Abdussamad that he earned and obtained additional education at Harvard Kennedy School’s certificate: Leaders in Development (2013) and Business Analysis (2008) from the Lagos Business School. He is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Management, the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria and Chartered Institute of Economists of NigerBetween 2006 and 2010. He worked at the renowned Africa’s biggest business conglomerate, the Dangote Group in various capacities and was Head of Corporate Marketing Unit of the company. He joined politics and was elected member, Sokoto State House of Assembly, representing Tambuwal East constituency in 2011 and served as Chairman, House Committees on Agriculture, Finance and Appropriation. While in the House, he sponsored a number of impactful bills and motions and represented the House at various fora, including periodic meetings of Commonwealth Parliamentarians. Because of his noticeable contributions both to the House and his constituency, the Sokoto chapter of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria, AFAN, honoured him with an award in 2013 for his outstanding performance as the Chairman, House Committee on Agriculture. In 2015, the people of Kebbe/Tambuwal Federal Constituency found Abdussamad worthy of being elected as their representative. While at the lower chambers of the National Assembly, NASS, Abdussamad, both at the plenary and floor of the House, distinguished himself in the service of his people and the country by sponsoring important motions and bills. He joined the former Speaker Yakubu Dogara to sponsor the North East Development Commission and the Not too young to rule bills. His impressive performance as the Chairman House Committee on Navy paved the way for the conception and ongoing construction of a world class Navy Secondary School in Tambuwal – the first of its kind in North West Nigeria. His performances and contributions on the floor of the green Chamber were recognised by the House Press Corps that they conferred on him an award of the Young Law Maker of the year in 2017. An ardent supporter of the irrepressible and indefatigable Governor Aminu Tambuwal, Hon Abdussamad has always demonstrated avowed commitment to the service of his constituency and Sokoto State at large. A staunch member of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in Sokoto state, Abdussamad is currently enjoying the massive support and endorsement of the opposing political parties in his constituency because of his performance and respect for humanity. Even though of a royal blood, he remains a very humble politician who respects everyone around him. Abdusamad believes strongly in good democratic governance which he always tried to do wherever he finds himself. For sure in sha Allah, come 2023 Abdussamad will return to the national assembly and who knows? Possibly to occupy one of the leadership seats of the green chambers. We say a LOUD AMEN to this. 