 Imo State police command has revealed the killing of three suspected members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and Eastern Security Network (ESN) in a gun battle. The command said others ran into the bush with various degrees of injuries and abandoned three of their operational vehicles. This was contained in a press release made available to LEADERSHIP Friday yesterday by the police public relations officer, Michael Abattam. He said, “Sequel to the command’s determination to curb the menace of terrorism in the state, on the 18/01/2023 at about 1130hrs, in response to a distress call that hoodlums suspected to be members of the proscribed Indigenegous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed affiliate Eastern Security Network (ESN) had attacked Agwa Central Vigilante Group, burning down their office and are proceeding to attack and set ablaze Agwa Police Station both in Oguta LGA of Imo State,  the combatant command’s tactical teams swiftly mobilised to the area. “Having been informed that the hoodlums had cordoned the station, the police operatives tactically manoeuvred their way into the station, joined the operatives of the division and professionally engaged the hoodlums in a fierce gun duel, and in the process three of the hoodlums were neutralised while others scampered for safety into the adjoining bushes with various degrees of gunshot wounds, abandoning three of their operational vehicles.  “The operatives on combing the bush, the following Items were recovered: Two Pump Action guns, two Double Barrel guns, four rounds or live ammunition, 12 expended cartridges, one Improvised Explosive Device, three operational vehicles – one green colour Lexus 470GL, one black colour Toyota Highlander, one Oxblood colour mini bus, two motorcycles, one iron box, one travelling bag and assorted charms.”  Abattam said investigation was in progress as the gallant operatives were not relenting in their efforts to arrest the fleeing members of the terrorist group.  Meanwhile, the corpses of the hoodlums have been evacuated and deposited in the mortuary.  The Command called on the people of the state to collaborate with the police and other security agencies in the fight against terrorism and to report any suspicious activities or person(s) seen treating gunshot wounds within their community to the nearest police station. “Call the command’s emergency numbers 08034773600 or 08098880197,” he said.  