A major financier of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) in Ndokwa nation, Delta State, Chief Tony Amechi, has dumped the party for the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP,) alongside thousands of his followers. Amechi, explained that the party never meant well for the people hence he won’t associate or finance a party that will impoverish the masses, saying that APC was populated by people of questionable characters. The defection ceremony which took place at the ancient town of Aboh, Ndokwa East LGA, was graced by the Delta State PDP chairman, Barr. Kingsley Esiso, the state party scribe, Engr. Dan Ossai as well as the deputy governorship candidate, Chief Monday Onyeme among other party chieftains. “I was fighting the Ndokwa cause as a private citizen but I was lured into APC, after a while I discovered that there were no lights in APC. Ndokwa nation gullibility stop today.” “I have taken time to examine all candidates in Ndokwa and I have seen a man in Onyeme, someone who has a large heart and meant well for the people. That is why Sheriff and Onyeme ticket is a done deal, and for that reason we must work for PDP all the way in the forthcoming elections. Leadership is not by size but the capability to do what is right,” he said. According to him; “I have declared fully for PDP with over 3000 followers. We will collapse APC in Ndokwa nation completely because they never meant well for you. They were all in PDP but only put on different clothes to deceive us. Chameleon can never change it spot.” He stressed that Sherriff and Onyeme ticket, therefore, needed to be supported as well as encouraged adding, “It is for this reason that I and my teeming supporters have decided to pitch tent with the PDP.” Esiso who received the defectors, commended Amechi for the bold step noting that his coming alongside his supporters, would no doubt add value to the support base the party had enjoyed in the federal constituency. “What is happening here today show that APC has collapsed in Ndokwa land. The leaders should realize that there is strength in unity. If anyone has offended you in PDP please forgive. There is no need to have beef. No one can do it alone. “We are here to welcome our brother Chief Amechi who was wondering in APC with broom like witches and wizards. We welcome you into the umbrella party. We are indeed happy with your coming and want you all to know that you will be accorded same privileges and rights like the old members,” Esiso stated. 