 Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi yesterday held a townhall meeting with academics, students, groups as well as a campaign rally in Maiduguri, where he urged the electorate to vote for competence and accountability instead of voting based on religion, ethnicity or tribe, in the upcoming presidential election. At the Elkanemi Warriors Sports Centre, the LP presidential hopeful alleged that in the last 24 years of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s misrule, average Nigerians have been subjected to poverty, unemployment, insecurity and ill-gotten public resources have remained in the hands of corrupt and selfish leaders. He promised that if elected, all the atrocities committed against Nigerians would be eroded, adding that he will reposition the country and its people for greater heights regardless of ethnic or religious leanings. He also said, in his tenure as president, he would turn Nigeria from consumption to production. “My people, time has come for all right-thinking eligible voters to vote for the Obi/Datti team to emerge president and vice president devoid of ethnic or religious sentiments so that we can collectively rescue Nigeria and Nigerians from the clutches of poverty, corruption, insecurity and the declined/poor educational system characterised with incessant ASUU strikes. “I want to assure you that if given the mandate by voting for me massively and all LP candidates from top to bottom during the forthcoming general elections, all these atrocities posed on Nigerians would be eroded, as we will collectively reposition the country and its people to greater heights, irrespective of ethnic, tribal or religious considerations by God’s grace,” Obi stated. He also swanked that he was the only presidential candidate who took time to visit Biu local government area three days ago because he believed in unified and one Nigeria project. While assuring the people that a new Nigeria is possible, Obi said, “We are not going to give excuses. I am not going to remind you of where you are coming from or to blame people where they failed.” Obi was hosted by the leaders of the party and the gubernatorial candidate, Captain Ibrahim Kadafur and the state party chairman, Ibrahim Goni Jere, where they promised to deliver LP in the coming elections in Borno. He was accompanied to Maiduguri by his running mate, Dr Datti Baba Ahmed; LP national chairman, Barr Julius Abure; social activist and member of Obi/Datti Movement, Aishat Yesufu and many other party supporters. The LP presidential candidate paid homage to the Shehu of Borno, His Royal Highness, Abubakar Ibn Garbai Elkanemi. Obi after a marathon engagement with the monarch, sought the Shehu’s blessings to emerge victorious in the February 25 presidential poll. The Shehu of Borno commended Obi for the visit and wished him well in his pursuit. The traditional ruler appealed to Obi if elected as President to revive the lake Chad basin, resume oil exploration in the basin, tackle insecurity, poverty and unemployment bedeviling the people of the state.