Governor of Nasarawa State Abdullahi Sule and the immediate past governor of the state, Sen Umaru Tanko Al-Makura have commended the member representing Awe/Doma/Keana federal constituency in the National Assembly, Abubakar Nalaraba, for executing over 30 projects in the three local governments.
They made the commendation when the member inaugurated his campaign council and commissioned some of the projects.
The inauguration of the campaign council consisting of old time politicians, were carefully selected by the legislator.
The programme took place weekend in Awe, the headquarters of Awe local government area of Nasarawa State.
Between 2019, 2020 and 2021, the legislator executed about 30 projects some of which include construction of a modern abattoir/slaughter slab in Doma, construction of a multi-purpose hall and road in Awe, provision of over thirty (30) solar powered boreholes in electoral wards of Awe, Doma and Keana federal constituency and many others.
Governor Sule, who was represented by his deputy, Emmanuel Akabe, commended the legislator for the execution of the projects across the three local governments he is representing.
The governor, called on other politicians to emulate Abubakar Nalaraba, saying the projects are worthy of commendation and served as campaign tools for APC in the state.
Also, the senator representing Nasarawa South at the National Assembly and the immediate past governor of the state, Sen Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, also thanked the legislator for effective representation.
Al-Makura urged the electorates to collect their PVCs and vote for all candidates of the APC.
Al-Makura, who appealed for rancour free elections, urgedthe electorates in the state to vote for Ahmed Bola Tinubu, Gov Sule, himself, Nalaraba and all candidates of the APC, for more dividends of democracy.
Earlier, Hon Abubakar Nalaraba, who was lively and exhibited some dancing skills at the event, thanked the electorates for sending him to represent them at the green chamber.
Nalaraba, who holds the traditional title of Sadaukin Lafia, said all he did in the last four years was a tip of the ice bag, as according to him, if voted back, he will attract more projects for his constituency.