An accident involving over five cars, on Sunday afternoon, claimed multiple lives and left no fewer than eight persons injured in a road crash that happened at the popular Nicon Junction along Nnamdi Azikiwe Expressway in Abuja.  According to an eyewitness, Mr. Clifford Ugochukwu, who is a resident of the Gishiri community, which is directly located opposite the Nicon Junction where the accident occurred at around 1:20pm, he was returning from Church when he saw the large crowd at the junction.  He explained that from what he saw after the accident, the people that were injured were rushed to the hospital by the personnel of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), who were at the scene of the accident.  Ugochukwu said that when he enquired about the cause of the accident, some said it was caused by overspeeding, but that the accident took everybody unawares, that even some people waiting to board vehicles were not spared.  “I counted about five vehicles, one was inside the drainage and was badly damaged, and there was another Camry 2013 that crossed over to the other side of the road, but was stopped by an electric pole from somersaulting.  “It also involved a Camry 2007, and 2008 model on the road and two other vehicles. But the one that was inside the drainage where most people were killed inside is a taxi.  “I was able to see about four people severely injured on the ground, but cannot say if they were dead or not. But I confirmed two dead bodies and I enquired to know the number of casualties, some people were saying five, some were saying four, and several people were injured.  “Because the vehicles ran into several people waiting along the road to cross to the other side of the road without wanting to use the pedestrian bridge. But I am not too sure of the number of people that died in the accident,” he said.  However, at the time of filing this report, officials of FRSC conveyed the injured to the hospital and the dead victims to the morgue, while a large crowd of onlookers was still seen at the scene of the accident.