 The Acting Director General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Mrs Christy Uba has urged Government at all levels to redouble commitment and collective efforts towards sustaining the relevance and invaluable contributions of the Scheme to national development. In her new year message, Uba congratulated Corps Members for sustaining the vision of the Scheme through various interventions that continuously promote national unity, integration and development of the critical sectors of our national economy. “I wish to particularly commend your patriotic zeal to render selfless service to the nation by accepting the clarion call as enshrined in the National Youth Service Corps Act. “Indeed, you must be applauded for accepting your deployment in good faith to various states of service and subsequent postings to respective places of Primary Assignment. “This practice has facilitated the rapid development of various host communities across the country for about five decades and helped to sustain the increasing relevance of the Scheme to national development,” she said. She also commended Corps Members who, in the course of National Service, represented their respective States of Service in various competitions and events organized by the Scheme and other national engagements. “Such commendable gesture and commitment by Corps Members no doubt encourages national unity and integration and should therefore be sustained. “May I equally remind you that the year 2023 provides another opportunity for the Scheme to prove its worth as an indispensable, unbiased umpire and critical element in strengthening the credibility and successful conduct of the 2023 General Elections and National Census. “Be informed that the integrity of the Scheme is paramount in this regard. As worthy Ambassadors, you must be ready to uphold the good name of the Scheme at all times,” Uba said. She further assured that the Management of the Scheme and all categories of Officers will be on routine visits to monitor their conduct and ensure provision of adequate welfare packages for them to carry out their duties in the national interest. “While appreciating Government at all levels for their support, we must redouble our commitment and collective efforts towards sustaining the relevance and invaluable contributions of the Scheme to national development. Be rest assured that Nigerians of all shades of opinion appreciate your selfless service to the nation. “Management will, in accordance with the provisions of the enabling Act of the Scheme, identify Corps Members who distinguished themselves in the course of national service and  reward them accordingly. “In the course of the Service Year, we are determined to sustain our  collaboration with relevant stakeholders towards providing the enabling environment for a productive and rewarding experience for Corps Members in active service to the nation,” she added. 