 Bauchi State commissioner for cooperatives and SMEs development, Hajiya Sa’adatu Bello Kirfi, has tendered her resignation letter to the state government with immediate effect. In the letter addressed to Governor Bala Mohammed through the Secretary to the State Government, Barrister Ibrahim Mohammed Kassim, she said, “Your Excellency, I wish to humbly tender my resignation as a member of the Bauchi State Executive Council and Hon. Commissioner Ministry of Cooperatives and SMEs Development.” She thanked the governor for giving her the opportunity to serve her state under his administration. Sa’adatu’s resignation is coming hours after her father, Mohammed Bello Kirfi was removed by the state government as senior councillor with the Bauchi emirate council under the leadership of His Royal Highness the Emir of Bauchi, Dr Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu, yesterday. Alhaji Mohammed Bello Kirfi has also his traditional title of Wazirin Bauchi removed by the Emirate Council through a letter signed by the council secretary, Alhaji Shehu Mudi Muhammad for what was tagged, ‘Disloyalty and Disrespect’ to Governor Bala Mohammed. Also, in the race to dump the Bauchi State government is the senior special assistant (SSA) on Local Government Affairs, Harsanu Yunusa Guyaba who also tendered his letter of resignation apparently due to the removal of Alhaji Muhammad Bello Kirfi as Wazirin Bauchi. The SSA wrote, “It is with immense gratitude to the Almighty Allah (SWT) and deep appreciation to His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Bauchi State, Sen. Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed CON (Kauran Bauchi) that I wish to tender my resignation as Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Local Government Affairs with effect from Tuesday, January 3rd, 2023”. Guyaba, also a former legislator, hails from Kirfi local government area and may have a relationship with the removed Bello Kirfi. “On behalf of myself, family members, friends, supporters and well-wishers, I wish to register my personal appreciation to His Excellency, Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed for finding me worthy of appointment to the position of SSA on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. It is a great honour done to me”, Guyaba said 