The Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), over the weekend, redeployed the Customs Area Controllers at the Muritala Muhammed Airport command and the Western Marine command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS).
Consequently upon the redeployment, Comptroller Mohammed Yusuf and Oduadu Salefu, were appointed Area Controllers of the Airport command and western marine command of the service respectively.
In a press statement by the public relations officer, Airport command, Victor Ogagbor, said Compt. Yusuf took over the helms of affairs of the command on Friday from, Sambo Dangaladima, who was transfered to Kano/Jigawa Command of the service.
Compt. Yusuf, sought for the cooperation of officers in the command’s to meet its target objectives, saying, team work, discipline and cooperation are needed to sustain and surpass the revenue target of the command.
Meanwhile, the newly appointed Compt. Western Marine command, Compt. Salefu, during his handing over charged officers and stakeholders to maintain high level of discipline, calling on officers and men of the Command to join hands with him to ensure the Command continue to fulfill its mandate in an efficient and professional way.
He also urged Officers to see change in leadership as a constant phenomenon in their professional career and in life in general.
Comptroller Salefu who has worked in various Customs formations and departments brings with him very rich and vast operational experience cutting across Revenue, Enforcement, Valuation, Classification, ICT, Intelligence and Administration.
Before his present appointment as the CAC Western Marine Command, Comptroller Salefu was Comptroller in the Department of Strategy, Research and Policy (SR&P), NCS headquarters Abuja and was until his promotion to the rank of a Comptroller, the DC Compliance, Port Harcourt Area 2 Onne.
The CAC also asked Officers and Men of the Command to buckle up so as to improve on the existing tempo in anti smuggling operation and to build upon the achievements of past administration to achieve an increased scorecard.