The Women leader of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Hajiya Saudat Abdullahi has urged women and youths to go out and collect their Permanent Voter Card (PVC), saying that this the only means by which they can bring the right kind of Leadership they crave for. Abdullahi, who also charged Nigerians not to sell their PVCs for any reason, also urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure Nigerians have less difficulty collecting their PVCs. The women leader, who stated this in a statement, added that the NNPP presidential candidate, Engr Muhammad Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has what it takes to take Nigeria out of the doldrums that the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has plunged Nigeria into. She stressed that Nigeria cannot afford another tenure of either the APC or PDP in government, adding that they have caused enough damage to the country. “From engagements and interactions it is clear that the majority, if not all, Nigerians are tired of the present situation in the country. From the staggering corruption in the country today to the unprecedented insecurity and the gross mismanagement of the economy, it is abundantly clear that we cannot afford another APC administration after this one. a PDP administration which laid for the disastrous foundation upon which the APC emerged. “So we need to look in a new direction if we must have the kind of Nigeria we crave. And I believe that Engr Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso and the NNPP provides that “He is easily the most experienced and most prepared presidential candidate of all the candidates so far. “But Nigerians need to go and collect their PVCs to elect him into office to bring the real change we crave. “We also task INEC to ensure that the process of collecting PVCs is not hampered. We have heard stories of how people’s PVCs have been found in pits and other places other than with the owners. We urge the electoral commission to be more vigilant in this regard,” she said. 