Leading innovator in Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning, LG Electronics has recognised partners at the firm’s dinner and awards night held in Lagos. At the LG organised Commercial Air Conditioner Dinner and Award Night which was first of its kind by the Air Solution Business Unit, over 20 partners were awarded for their performance and impact in the year Delivering the Welcome Address,  Commercial Air Conditioning Manager, LG Electronics West African Operations, Mr. Saheed Adeyemi said the Air Solution success now and in the future, is closely tied to delivering a partner-led, profit-driven Commercial Air Conditioning. He said, “We are excited to recognize partners for delivering excellent service and impact across the nation. Our partners are uniquely positioned to help clients and customers unlock the full potential of the HVAC system. LG Multi V air conditioners has been installed in various places both in and outside the country and we are indeed indebted to your contribution towards this success.’’ In a presentation titled ‘Ahead of the Expected with LG HVAC Solutions,’ Mr. Kunle Onanuga, LG Electronics Nigeria gave an overview on LG Business and other engineering tools. This recognition of outstanding excellence first of its kind, is to appreciate our partners for staying glue to us says General Manager, Air Solution, LG Electronics West African Operations, Mr. Joonkyu Song,said the recongtion was to appreciate the firm’s partners for staying glue to the company. “This year has been fantastic for us with your support, we hope next year will be better with the target we have set, hopefully we would invite our business partners to Korea in 2023,” he said. In his remark, Arch. Olusegun Ladega, Managing Director, Interstate Architects Ltd. said consistent drive for what the market needs and ideate what the market has never thought of is what LG Electronics stands for. From environmentally friendly products to energy efficiency products, LG stands for durability and the less energy, the more adaptable it is.