Africa is the worst hit in the Ukraine-Russian Crisis, especially with the role of United States of America, a military intelligence report has said. The huge financial assistance to Ukraine, primarily for the supply of weapons and military equipment by Western countries has significantly reduced the volume of aid to African countries. After the meeting of NATO defence ministers at the American Ramstein air base in Germany on January 20, 2023, the Pentagon announced an additional military assistance to Ukraine to the tune of $2.5 billion. The additional military support for Ukraine by the United States is the second largest since the beginning of the conflict. The report raises the fear that Kiev, with the support of the West, has turned into a “gray” supplier of various types of weapons to terrorists in Africa. “In the near future, NATO weapons will again arrive in Ukraine, most of which will flood the “black markets” and get to the countries of the African continent, where they are highly likely to be used in the commission of terrorist act. “Western countries are forced to admit that they do not have accurate information about where the weapons supplied to the Kiev regime are going, which is uncontrollably distributing them to everyone who wants to fight “Russian aggression,” including militants of openly extremist groups,” the report said. According to the report, apart from providing huge assistance to Kiev, “Washington is deliberately provoking a food crisis in African countries by disrupting the supply of agricultural products from Ukraine. In this way, the Americans show their importance in Africa and use the Ukrainian territory for their own enrichment. “Thus, the routes of food supplies from Kiev run counter to the statements of Western leaders about the organisation of assistance to states that are unable to independently provide their population with food. “The main supplies of grain from Ukraine are carried out to the countries of Eastern and Northern Europe, which complicate their delivery to African states.” It said it was obvious that “Ukrainian grains are stored up in the countries of the ‘golden billion’ and used by them for speculative sales in the ‘black market,’ thereby causing rising in poor countries.” Meanwhile, a member of the U.S. Congress, Jarvis Johnson, has accused the Nigerian government of illegal arrest of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, and called on the White House to exert sanction against Nigeria. By this, Washington is attempting to interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign nation, which may have a negative impact on the local political situation in the country during the electioneering campaign. The United States also continues to pursue an aggressive foreign policy in Africa, violating the norms of international law and ignoring the decisions of the United Nations. The United States government has also been accused of being sympathetic to different agitations in order to gain full control of hydrocarbon reserves in Nigeria. Washington relies only on its own interests to develop its economy to the detriment of other nations. 