Nollywood has produced a lot of talented teen actresses who have done well in the movie industry. While the entertain millions of viewers across the globe with their acting skills, in return their hard work does not go in vain, as they are handsomely rewarded for their efforts. Some I’d these teen screen goddesses have made a fortune from their acting careers. LEADERSHIP Weekend takes a look at 8 of the richest teen actresses in Nigeria.  Emmanuella Samuel Emmanuella Samuel was born in July 2010, in Port Harcourt. She is the star actress of Mark Angel Comedy. A web comic series produced by Mark Angel and published on YouTube and other social media networks. Emmanuella has been rated as the youngest and best kid comic actress in Nigeria. In 2016, she received an award in Australia. She is currently the brand ambassador of Peak Milk and Fresh Yo.  Sharon Ifedi Sharon Ifedi was born on 25th March 2004 in Asaba, Delta State in the southern part of Nigeria. Sharon Ifedi is originally from Anambra state in the southeastern part of Nigeria. She has starred in movies like Tears of a Slave Child, Little Madam of the House, Price of Wickedness, My Responsibility, Lost Princess, Agony of the Girl Child, Return of Tears of Sharon, Wasted Authority, Tears of the Weeping Prince, Celebrity Queen, and many more.  Adaeze Onuigbo Adaeze Onuigbo was born in 2005 in Asaba, Delta State, in 2018, Adaeze Onuigbo contested and won the ‘Face of Anambra Beautiful Kids’ an event which was held in Awka, Anambra State. She has starred in movies like Perfect House Boy, The New Girl in My Class, Karate Kid, Anointed Kids, Lion Heart, Beauty of Love, Festival of Reality, Return of Sharon, The Strange Shrine, The Stolen Crown, and many more.  Jeiel Jamina Jeiel Jamina became popular after her role as Olive in the popular television web series Best Friends in the World. Jeiel has starred in many television series and regarded as one of the best teen actresses in Nigeria.  Chisom Oguike Chisom Oguike is the immediate elder sister of teen stars, Chidinma Oguike and Chinenye Oguike. She has featured alongside her sisters in several Nollywood movies. Chisom became popular after her role in the popular television series My Kids and I. She has also featured in other Soulmate Studio series where she acts alongside with her sisters, Chinenye and Chidinma Oguike. They are popularly known as the Oguike sisters.  Chidinma Oguike Chidinma Oguike was born in August 2009.She became very popular after her role in the popular television series My Kids And I. She has also featured in other Soulmate Studio series alongside her sisters, Chinenye and Chisom Oguike.  Angel Unigwe Angel Unigwe is a talented Nollywood actress, model, social media influencer and a brand ambassador. She was born on 27th June 2008.Angel was introduced into the Nigerian movie industry by her mother.  Aunty Success Aunty Success Madubuike, is a comic actress and model, she was born in July 2013 in Port Harcourt. She was discovered by Mark Angel Comedy and has been described as one of the best youngest comic actress in Nigeria.She is very funny, hilarious, intelligent, brilliant and clever.