Kwara State governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, on Friday, said that only God can stop the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, from winning the February 25, 2023 presidential election. The governor, however, quickly added that, “I believe God will not stop a good man from achieving his goal. Asiwaju Tinubu is a good man who has impacted on the lives of many people.” AbdulRazaq said that going by Tinubu’s track record as Lagos State governor and his unmatched humanitarian endeavours since 2007 when he left office as governor, “I am confident that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will win this year’s presidential election.” The governor spoke in Ilorin, the State capital during a special prayer organised by the North-Central Agenda for Asiwaju/Shettima (NCAA). Represented by his deputy, Kayode Alabi, Governor AbdulRazaq added that: “Tinubu is a good man. He is a great man. There is no way you can have that kind of heart that God will not bless you. Asiwaju Tinubu was the governor of Lagos State between 1999 and 2007. How many governors in Nigeria are still relevant as Asiwaju up till now? None. Do you know why? Because he is a good man. “I told the wife when they came for women rally in support of Asiwaju’s presidential ambition last year that her husband’s victory is a done deal. I told her that ‘God has blessed your husband’. “I am saying it again now that nothing can stop Asiwaju from winning the February 25th presidential election except God. And I know for certain that God will not stop a good man. Nobody is perfect. Everyone of us here is not perfect. Only God is perfect. Don’t talk about his imperfections. “Once he wins the election, we will also win the March 11th governorship/State House of Assembly election. “I urge you all to vote for Tinubu, National Assembly candidates, Governor and House of Assembly candidates in our state.” Also speaking, the national chairman, South-West Agenda for Asiwaju (SWAGA), Senator Dayo Adeyeye, said Nigeria needed the services of Tinubu in this time of emergency. “In times of difficulty in life is when the services and intellect of a great leader are needed. The great leader will turn situation around. This is actually the time we need Asiwaju. When things are rosy; when things are good; when the economy is doing fine, you may afford not to have a fantastic leader. “But in times of difficulty, when the nation is sickly, when things are bad and when hope is lost you need a leader like Tinubu to bring the country out of debts and take the country to higher level. This is the time we need Tinubu to steer the ship of state to a safe harbour,” Adeyeye stated. Convener of the group, Hon Oyetunde Ojo, said that a “cabal cannot operate under Asiwaju Tinubu government. It does not mean he will not have advisers and ministers. “There could be close friends, but one thing about Tinubu is that if you want to be his friend you must come out and work. That is why he is a detribalised Nigerian. His cabal is those who can work and rescue the country.”