 The Rector, Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron, Akwa Ibom State, Commodore Emmanuel Effedua (rtd), has commended the Federal Ministry of Transportation and the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), for their support toward the acquisition of modern equipment for training of cadets and seafarers in the country. Speaking during the presentation of certificates to the first batch of trainees in the Engine Room Simulator Course, the Rector said the acquisition of equipment has transformed the academy into a world-class maritime education and training institution. LEADERSHIP reports that the academy has procured equipment such as the Multi-functional Classroom Simulator, and Ocular Vision Simulator, among others. The academy’s Simulators are the latest in the world of simulation, they are not generic, but custom-made, to meet the current training needs in the maritime industry. The multi-functional classroom simulator has eight Simulators embedded in one and has the capacity to hold different Courses at different times for both Engine and Deck students and can accomodate up to 30 trainees at a time. Also, the Ocular Vision Simulator when worn on the head launches the trainee into a virtual engine room where they can operate functions like operating of valves, switching machineries on and off within the engine of a ship. However, speaking at the event, the Rector noted that the Transportation Ministry has been solidly behind the management’s quest to ensure full realisation of its transformation as specified by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), even as he expressed his happiness with the Academy’s commencement of Simulator-based Courses using the most modern Simulators in the world with the approval of NIMASA. He stated that the Academy, with NIMASA’s approval, now offers 12 simulator-based courses for the training of seafarers for their professional development. “Today is yet another memorable day for us at the Academy, because we have graduated the first set of students from our newly developed simulator- based courses. I am highly appreciative of the roles played by the Federal Ministry of Transportation and NIMASA, towards the realisation of this Academy’s aspiration. This feat, though it was not an easy one, would not have been achieved without their unflinching supports. “With the acquisition of high quality Simulators, the Academy now offers, Ship Simulator & Bridge Teamwork (SSBT); Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS) General Operators Certificate (GOC) Course; Electronic Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS); Radar Navigation, Radar Plotting and Use of ARPA (RNRPA); Liquid Cargo & Ballast Handling Simulator (LCBHS). “Bridge Watch-Keeping Preparatory Course (BWPC); Engine Room Simulator (Operational Level) Course (ERSOL); Engine Room Simulator (Management Level) Course (ERSML); High Voltage Course (HV); Auxiliary Engine Familiarization Course (AEFC); Boiler Familiarization Course (BFC) and Engine Room Watchkeeping Preparatory Course (ERWPC),” he stated. According to him, the nation would now save foreign exchange through the availability of simulator-based courses which Nigerians needed huge and scarce foreign exchange to undertake these same courses at very high cost abroad. The Rector, however, expressed confidence that continued supports of the Federal Ministry of Transportation and NIMASA would sustain the academy’s status as one of the best Maritime Education and Training Institutions in the world and even go higher. A pioneer student of the course, who is also a third Engineer at World Carrier Ship Management, Engr. Patrick Audu, expressed satisfaction over the quality of training he received. He stated that the training facilities, learning environment and quality of instructors are of international standard. “I want to encourage my colleagues in the industry to come and get trained at the Academy instead of going abroad to spend money on a course they can get at the Academy and at a cheaper rate,” Audu stated.