If you have never tried your hand against Lady Luck, you might be wondering what it’s like to beat the odds. Actually, those who have never been to a casino, land-based or online, are probably thinking that it might be fun to play a few slots or maybe sit in on a game of Texas Hold ‘Em. After all, you probably meet with your friends every now and again to play a few hands of poker, so why not try your hand at a real live casino online? However, you might be reluctant to make that first wager and now you want to know if it’s possible to gamble without risking your own money. You might be surprised at the answer to that question often asked by those new to the games. You will often find that gambling and investing are alike in that both involve a risk of putting down money that you have in hand in the hopes of future gain. Unfortunately, at this point you will find that many financial pundits claim that investing is a surer wager. Is it really, and why do they call investing in the markets a ‘wager’? Isn’t that a bet?  Furthermore, the stock markets have crashed several times, with the worst, of course, being the crash that led to the Great Depression. But, what about the financial crisis of 2008-09? Didn’t the entire world get swept into what has been labelled the Great Recession? How safe was that? The point being made here is that both are betting on future gains from money wagered now. That being said, have you ever seen a stock that you’d like to invest in where the company gave you the first few shares for free, without a single pound being paid? If you take the time to look closely, you will find that you can get a no deposit bonus from casino.online. You can ‘wager’ on the house money, not yours! Whereas there are some online casinos that will give you a bonus for making that initial deposit, this one is money to play with and there is no deposit necessary. The real issue is that some people have an addictive nature. Whether it’s alcohol, drugs, tobacco, gambling or even investing, they will become obsessed with something and take unnecessary risks. Yes, that can be said of gambling but the difference between casinos and the markets is that casinos will warn players of the dangers of addiction. Have you ever seen a stock broker give that warning on their websites? It would be highly unusual if you did and sadly, more people lose a whole lot more money in the markets than they do at the tables! So then, getting back to the original question, is it possible to gamble without risking your own money? The answer to that is as explained above. Yes, you can start playing with the house’s money at online casinos that offer a no deposit bonus to play with for new players. That is in the very beginning. What you choose to do with any winnings is up to you. At the point where you have won a few pounds, do you want to play on or quit while you’re ahead? Most people would naturally want to keep playing with that money because, after all, it isn’t theirs to start with! They didn’t put a single pound on deposit to play with so any wagers played with winnings is still playing with money that isn’t yours! Then there are other types of bonuses to play with as well. Sometimes you are offered a ‘match’ in that up to a certain amount the house will match your deposit. If you started with house money then continued to play, at some point you might want to make a deposit to play with. Here’s where you seek the different bonuses that will match your deposit or perhaps from playing mobile. It’s all about how you use that initial bonus and what you do from there. Yes, you can gamble without spending your own money, but you can also double the money you deposit. Isn’t that like gambling with someone else’s money? No one can promise you that you will be a winner every time, but if you wager wisely with that sign-on ‘gift’ you’ve been given, who knows what the outcome will be?