The Ohanaeze Youths Movement has frowned at a comment credited to the Governor of Imo State, in which he claimed he was aware of some meetings between the Spokesperson of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) Ikenga Ugochinyere, and the unknown gunmen, who attacked his residence in Akokwa, Imo State, at the weekend.  Recall that on Saturday, January 14, 2023, a motorcade conveying gunmen and arsonists stormed the residence of Ugochinyere, who is also the PDP candidate for Ideato North/South federal constituency of the State, at his hometown in Akokwa, where four persons were killed including his uncle.  While reacting to the attack, Governor Uzodinma had accused Ugochinyere of violating an agreement which he (the PDP candidate) allegedly reached with unknown gunmen and it was Ikenga’s breach of the agreement that led to the attack.  But, the Ohanaeze Youth group in a statement signed by its secretary general, Nwada Amaka, described the governor’s comment on the attack as shameful, saying that he has just exposed the depth of his knowledge of the attack prior to its execution.  The group said Uzodinma’s attempt to divert attention by making wild allegations have shown that he was behind attack.  The group, therefore, urged the Nigeria Police Force to ensure that all the perpetrators of the heinous crime get arrested quickly for immediate prosecution and necessary punishment as stipulated by law.  The statement reads, “It’s actually disappointing thar after seeing the horrific pictorial and video evidences showing the extent of the damage and murderous escapades of those gunmen, the governor leading the state where this took place has this to say.  “An indigene’s House, cars were burnt down, his uncle’s and other people were brutally murdered. The governor who’s supposed to be in charge of ensuring the protection of lives and properties of the citizens he governs is busy making baseless accusations.  “This is not the first time Ikenga is being attacked, He was openly threatened by an appointee of a sitting governor just last month and last week, an attempt was made on his life. We urge security agencies to do the needful, no one is above the law, the perpetrators must be brought to book.”