One of the pillars of the entertainment industry in Nigeria and the founder of the Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA), Ms. Peace Anyiam-Osigwe, is dead. It was learnt that she was in coma since Saturday at St. Nicolas Hospital in Victoria Island, Lagos before she succumbed to the cold hands of death in the early morning of Tuesday. According to different sources and those close to her family, the news of her death was being handled with utmost sensitivity because Peace still has an aged mother. A former president of the Association of Movie Producers (AMP), Zik Zulu Okafor, has confirmed her sudden demise. Also, award-winning producer, Obi Emelonye, had posted on his social media handle about her demise. Peace Anyiam-Osigwe was until her death the president of the Association of Movie Producers, (AMP) and commanded the respect of many not only in Nigeria but the African movie industry. Meanwhile, the family of the Nollywood giant has formally announced the death of the cerebral professional and president of AMP. In a statement released and signed by the Anyiam-Osigwe family titled,
‘Peace Maria Ogechi Anyiam-Osigwe: An epitome of creative Transcendance’, it said Peace was an outstanding personality, trailblazer, titan, pathfinder, go-getter and humanitarian, and they will ensure her legacy lives on. Peace, who also is the founder of African Movie Academy (AFA), was said to be ill and went into a coma until the news of her demise fileted through on Tuesday morning and put the movie industry into mourning. The statement reads: “The Emmanuel Onyechere Osigwe Anyiam-Osigwe clan in thanksgiving to God and in the belief that God is good and everything He does is good and in accordance with His divine will, pattern and plan, announce the passing to eternal glory of our illustrious beloved daughter, sister, aunt and great aunt Ms. Peace Maria Ogechi Anyiam-Osigwe (MFR). “Peace, the Ada of the Anyiam-Osigwe family, was an outstanding personality, trailblazer, titan, pathfinder, go-getter, humanitarian, one-of-a-kind creative, and visionary leader in the film and television industry. Peace left indelible imprints on the sands of time. “We as a family and clan will continue do all that is necessary to ensure that her legacy lives on – the Africa Movie Academy Awards and the Africa Film Academy, along with their training programmes across Nigeria and the African continent will carry on seamlessly by institutions she set up and with the full support of the Osigwe Anyiam-Osigwe Foundation and other Institutions and Government Agencies whith whom she has worked over the years. Her numerous charities across different religious denominations and other communities will also be continued. We will miss the love and companionship we shared with her and we pray “that your Chi guide you on the path to God’s everlasting love into the light of his consciousness.” “We also pray God our Father of all mercies to grant you eternal rest in his heavenly kingdom where his perpetual light will continue to shine on. We believe you are alive in the life of God because as our father said “ALL IS LIFE AND LIFE ALONE”. And you continue to live in the hearts of all who love you. “The family will announce the details of her rites of passage in due course. “Meanwhile, the Family respectfully asks, at this time, for the public to respect the privacy of the family as we contemplate God’s love for his children.”