 A University Lecturer, Professor Azeez Olaniyan has decried the politicisation of administration and management of the country Universities, saying such has  retarded their growth and made them subservient to politicians. He urged President Muhammadu Buhari and state Governors to ignore unnecessary interference of politicians in the affairs and administration of Nigerian  Universities to ensure effective service delivery. Olaniyan who is a Professor of Political Science also identified poor infrastructure, inadequate funding, corruption, brain drain, industrial action as some of the factors militating against seamless university administration in the country. He spoke in Ado Ekiti while delivering the 3rd Annual Lecture and Award Ceremony of the Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti (EKSU) Alumni Association, EKiti State chapter titled “University Governance In 21st Century:EKSU And Expectations Under a New Visitor.” This is just as the Chairman, EKSU Alumni Association Ekiti State chapter Comrade Deji Oso (Dejavou) and the Coordinator, Ido-Osi local government, Mr Ayodeji Ogunbusuyi stressed the need for entrenchment of good governance in the university administration. Olaniyan expressed dismay over the attitude of some influential personalities who always put undue pressure on university management to influence decisions which are detrimental to the growth of the institutions. The Global President of the Alumni Association, Engr. Dipo Bamisaye and National Secretary Dr Isaac Akinleye acknowledged efforts being made to uplift the University. Speaking with newsmen, Oso said, “Democratic governance is necessary in the system. University administration should democratise properly and there should be more autonomy to the universities, with this, I believe the system will be more effective”. Ogunbusuyi who was awarded “the  association’s most dedicated male member” good governance in the administration of Universities will ensure that they have the will and wherewithal to do what is expected of them. “For instance the education sector is supposed to get about 26 percent of the total budget of a state or country but what they get is between 4 and 6 percent which is not sufficient but with good people who know the importance of education in position, they will do better”.  Ogunbusuyi advised the governor of the state, Mr Biodun Abayomi, who is the visitor to EKSU as well as an alumnus of the institution to increase the subvention to EKSU to be self-sustaining and develop the university’s infrastructure.  At the event, various categories of awards were given to notable personalities and many members of the Alumni association who have distinguished themselves are doing well in their chosen careers and service to the association. 