Rivers State Governor Wike has said the resignation of former minister of health and member of the Board of Trustees (BOT) of the PDP, Professor Alphonsus Nwosu from the party was in further support of the G5 governors’ demand for equity, fairness and justice. He warned that if the party remained unyielding in zoning the office of the national chairman to the South, it should  be willing to  face the repercussion. Wike spoke yesterday when stakeholders of Ogu/Bolo local government area of the state paid him a solidarity visit at Government House, Port Harcourt. The governor stated that he had continued to challenge the party to the fact that everybody is equal in the country with nobody being a second class citizen. Wike said: “I have continued to challenge them. What is the problem? What are we fighting for? What I said and will continue to say is that all of us are from this country, nobody is a second class citizen. “We agreed that this is how our party will be. Recently, Prof. A.B.C Nwosu resigned from the party saying his conscience would not allow him, that the constitution of the party is clear, if you take this, these other people will take that. Why now are we saying that we won’t do it again? “What the people are saying is look, you have taken this, let these people take that and you are saying you will take all. If you take all, you will also face the repercussions.” The governor, who declared that anybody fighting the state would be  defeated, maintained that God had blessed the state so much that he would not allow its adversaries become victorious because the protective wall still remained difficult to penetrate. He stated that even if Rivers State loves peace, it cannot be intimidated and made to succumb to those who just want to milk it and deny it rightful place in the scheme of national politics. The governor said: “You can not fight anybody that God has blessed. God has blessed Rivers State. Anybody fighting Rivers State, you are fighting yourself. “Nobody can intimidate us. No one State in this country can intimidate Rivers State. If you want to fight us, we will fight you to the last. “If you want to make peace with us, we  will make peace with you to the last. But thinking that anybody will come and intimidate us and then we will chicken out, that is not possible.”