Gombe State governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, yesterday led other candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and party stalwarts a campaign rally in Dukku local government area of the state. The governor’s first port of call was the palace of the Emir of Dukku, Alhaji Haruna Abdulkadir Rasheed. While receiving the governor, the royal father extolled  policy directions and visionary initiatives of the Inuwa which he said have turned Gombe to a model from which other states and agencies emulate. The Emir applauded the governor’s zeal towards development, expressing satisfaction with the  keen interest and attention he is giving to the people of Dukku. He specifically praised the afforestation project of Inuwa-led administration in the area. “It is still fresh in our memories that, Dukku was the first place you chose to flag-off your Afforestation Project; the 3G which has positively impacted on the lives of our youth and helps in mitigating problems of climate change and other environmental problems not only here in Dukku but in the whole state,” he said. On the road projects, the Emir said, “The ongoing road construction from Gombe Abba to Kirfi undertaken by Northeast Development Commission would not have been possible without the effort and intervention of the governor; he is the genesis behind the road in addition to other important roads constructed in Dukku. “I also went round the places where the dredging works were being undertaken and I can confidently attest to how happy and appreciative these people are about the projects:. He added that going by these unprecedented achievements, “the governor deserves another opportunity to serve his people the more and to continue with the good works initiated”, calling on people of  Dukku to reciprocate the gesture for more development projects in the area. The Emir also conferred on Governor Inuwa the traditional title of ‘Garkuwa Babba’ of Dukku. Speaking earlier, Governor Inuwa appreciated the warm reception and the honour done to him by the royal father and the entire Dukku Emirate. He told the monarch that when re-elected, he will consolidate on the unprecedented first term gains of his administration for a consistent and sustainable development across board, promising to continue providing responsible leadership that will take the state to enviable heights. The governor expressed optimism that APC will have a resounding victory in the forthcoming elections owing to the track records of achievements of the party’s administration in Gombe state and Nigeria.