 Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has advised Nigerians not to vote for the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, saying he would sell the birth rights of Nigerians to the highest bidders if voted into power. Tinubu said the PDP candidate cannot be trusted with power, but would sell Nigeria’s assets to his cronies. Speaking at a rally at the MKO Democracy Park in Akure, the Ondo State capital, the APC flag bearer vowed not to disappoint Nigerians if they vote massively for him on February 25. Addressing a mammoth crowd that welcomed him to Akure, Tinubu also took a swipe at the Labour Party candidate, Mr. Peter Obi, describing him as an “emergency warehouse economist.” Tinubu said Obi has nothing to be proud of as governor of Anambra State for eight years, adding that Obi had a chance to show up as a progressive when he was governor of Anambra State. He pointed out that all the Labour Party flag  bearer could do was to boast that he saved money when he was governor. He said: “Obi has nothing to be proud of, instead he made people of Anambra cry and claims to be Labour Party leader. “My people, you cannot entrust your future and that of our nation to Atiku and Obi. What has Atiku brought to Nigeria?” he added. Tinubu who promised to actualise the Deep Seaport project in Ondo State, also promised to scrap estimated billing  in Nigeria’s electricity system. While assuring them that he had a template in Lagos to show for his experience in governance, Tinubu urged voters in Ondo to vote for him in the interest of their future. He said: “Ondo is known as a progressive state, follow by other states like Ogun, Oyo and I appreciate our progressives governors. This incoming election is our own, is the vote of inheritance. It is a vote of three in one. Don’t lose your PVCs, your PVCs are your right. “Our rally today is a signal of our renewed hope for Nigeria, that February 25, you will go and make a wise decision, you will vote massively for me, I am too sure and very sure that you will vote for APC and that’s why I am very happy. I will win this election. Atiku cannot do it, he doesn’t want to build a better nation.” “I and my running mate, Shettima are ready to renew hope through empowerment for all of you, if you give me your mandate as you promised, I will work so hard, and put money in your pockets. “I love what governor Akeredolu has done in Ondo State, he has improved the infrastructure status of Ondo State. We will work together with Ondo State to be an economic center. We will develop the Ondo Deep Sea Port. We will develop uninterrupted energy. “We will do more to develop Ondo State and Nigeria as a whole. We are a people of peace and prosperity. Our educational sector will receive priority in our government. No children of the poor will be left behind. If you don’t have the money, we will establish a student credit loan so that you can go to school. You will be educated, you will be an expert.” Earlier, the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu assured Tinubu of victory in the state. In the same vein, APC chairman in the state, Ade Adetimehin, said the party is strong and united ahead of the election. The national secretary of the APC, Iyiola Omisore who led other members of the National Executive Council to address the audience, said the Tinubu government would bring good governance to their doorsteps. On the campaign trail were Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun; former Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola and National Women Leader of the APC, Dr. Betta Edu among others.    