 Clearing agents operating at the nation’s seaports have assured the government of Imo state of maximum support for the actualisation of Inland Dry Port, Container Terminal as well as the dredging of Oguta Lake to the Atlantic Ocean. Speaking during a courtesy call on the governor of Imo state, Senator Hope Uzodinma, the acting president, Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents ( ANLCA), Dr Kayode Farinto, disclosed that the association unalloyed support to the governor. Farinto, however, commended the governor for his infrastructural development of the state, saying, despite the security challenges in the state, he remained unperturbed. He said:  “I have been monitoring you and I can say that you have been working tirelessly. I commend your infrastructural development especially in education, health, roads among others and this development came despite nsecurity and other challenges been witnessed in the state. “We have been following you since you were the chairman, Senate Committee on Customs and you also assisted us too. You recovered stolen money for the federal government, thank you sir for that good job.” Responding, governor Uzodinma assured the clearing agents of his continued support even as he stated that he won’t stop doing his best for the state. To him,  “I want to thank you, since 1954, this association has contributed to the economic prosperity of our Country, particularly in the area of Commerce.” veloping infrastructure to attract businesses to the state and increase prosperity, social order and welfare in the life of our citizens. My government alone cannot do it, but with the support of other stakeholders, we will  provide enabling environment to make business attractive.” Uzodinma further disclosed that his government, in collaboration with the federal government, has plan to dredge the Oguta Lake to the Atlantic Ocean to open up the maritme activities in the state. According to the governor, the state has the highest gas deposits in the country with seven Communities having oil deposits, saying, the two federal government projects on oil and gas will open the state up for maritme economy.