 Governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Rivers State, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, has said, if elected governor, his administration will integrate new ways of doing things in the state. Abe disclosed this at Okrika while receiving hundreds of decampees from other political parties into the SDP in Okrika local government area of the state. The governorship candidate said his administration will never impose leaders on the people but will allow communities to choose their leaders, who will, in turn, guide the government on what to do for the people. Abe said: “We have talked to you about freedom, liberty and respect for norms and institutions. We will ensure that, we will also give you back the rights you will choose your leaders. It is the people you choose as leaders that we will deal with. “We will not come to your community and impose people on you who don’t have your confidence. So that we can call them tomorrow them say go and chase your father, they will chase their father, chase your mother, will chase their mother. “No, we will allow you to choose your own leaders so that if something is bad for you, they will also educate you and say no, this thing is no good oh. My people would not like this. My people do not behave like this. People don’t like this and all that. “That’s what leaders and community are supposed to do for the community, guide the government so that the government we be in tune with the people. We are also going to integrate a new way of doing things in Rivers State. “We are totally focused on how people will make money. Everybody needs money, there is no point pretending that it is only big men who need money.” rybody wants to be the biggest man that he can be. There is nobody who wants to be a small person because you are a big person.   “In a democracy, the first first rule that all of us must understand is that we are all equal. That’s what makes it a democracy. If we don’t accept that equality, every action that we take based on the fact that we are important or we are right and others are not important, are not right, makes no sense of the whole democracy.   “That’s why in a democracy the governor, the senator, the chairman, the honorable, everybody has one vote and the power of all the votes are equal. Nobody’s vote has more power than that of the other person,” he said.