Real Madrid’s forward Vinicius Junior and LaLiga president Javier Tebas clashed on social media over LaLiga’s stance on dealing with racism. On Saturday, the Brazil international accused LaLiga of continuing to do nothing about racist fans at matches after videos on social media showed supporters shouting abuse and throwing objects at him at a match a day earlier. LaLiga issued a statement condemning all forms of hate speech and saying it was following up on instances of racism at the match. Vinicius appeared to be subjected to abuse at the Jose Zorrilla stadium in Valladolid as he walked past fans after being substituted in Madrid’s 2-0 win over Real Valladolid on Friday. “Racists continue to go to stadiums and watch the biggest club in the world up close and LaLiga continues to do nothing,” Vinicius wrote on Twitter. “I will continue with my head held high and celebrating my victories and those of Madrid.” However, Tebas responded to Vinicius’ tweet on social media and criticised him. “In LaLiga, we’ve been fighting against racism for years,” Tebas wrote on Twitter. “@Vinicius Junior, it is unfortunate, unfair and not true to publish that LaLiga doesn’t do anything against racism. Inform yourself better. “We are at your disposal so that all together, we can go in the same direction.” Tebas also shared an official statement on Saturday where the league said it was looking into Friday’s match. “LaLiga has detected racist insults from the stands of the Zorrilla stadium, published on social networks,” the Spanish top-flight league said. “These facts will be reported to the Anti-Violence Commission and the Public Prosecutor’s Office for hate crimes, as has been done on other occasions.” The league detailed how it had addressed incidents of racist abuse toward players in the past and said it will continue to fight against “the scourge of violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sport.” Valladolid also issued a statement condemning the incidents and promising to work with LaLiga to investigate events at their stadium. “Real Valladolid completely condemns any form of racism and regrets what happened very much,” the statement read.  