Born out of the lack of available sustainable tech platforms for young tech enthusiasts in Nigeria, Digital Expert Academy has launched its new tech campus. This is even as it targets 10 million employable Nigerian youths that are savvy in the areas of digital infrastructure, technical skills, Data Centres and Key IT trainings over the next 10 years. The global talent shortage in tech has been well reported. A report by Korn Ferry predicts that by 2030, there will be as many as 85 million unfilled tech roles, translating to over $8 trillion lost revenue annually. The Digital Expert Academy is championing the transformation into technology solutions as a service, with its tech-enabled managed services portfolio courses and a commitment to technology innovation, operational excellence, and partnership intimacy. The chairman, 21st Century Technologies, Mr Wale Ajisebutu, who disclosed this in a press statement made available to LEADERSHIP, reverberated that the digital expert academy is poised to actively building a team of young forward thinkers more immersed in the rich and vibrant communities that drive the conversations around innovation, tech and capacity development. Ajisebutu revealed that the decision to kick off its digital expert academy stems from his long term ambition to train 10 million employable Nigerian youths, adding that, Digital Expert academy is positioned on helping young tech talents across Nigeria to unleash their full potentials and explore opportunities in the tech and digital ecosystem. He also emphasised that the academy wants to address the issue of young tech talents wanting to leave Nigeria in search of greener pasture, a situation he coined as the ‘Japa Syndrome.’ The launching ceremony comes after almost nine months of continuous effort by the 21st Century Team and it brand Architectural contractor ( SpaceIkon ) towards ensuring a smart and digitally inclined tech campus for all young tech enthusiasts in the country.
U.S consulate, Lagos, Mr Wills Stevens, expressed his marvel at the world class standard establishment the digital expert academy represent, while stating that the facility has the capacity to compete with other world tech institutions. The managing director of Stanbic IBTC Bank, Dr Obadare Adewale, also emphasised on the importance of Nigeria being the African giant as a vantage point to positioning her youths as front runners in tech in commiseration with its growing youthful population as adopted by other growing countries like India and Japan. Country manager, Microsoft Nigeria, Mrs Ola Williams added that, the Academy platform would open enormous doors to uprising talents in tech, creative and digital industry towards the global inclusion of Nigeria as a nation to reckon with.