 The Federal Ministry of State for Industry, Trade and Investment has tasked Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the North Eastern part of the country to take advantage of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria’s (SON’s) recently commissioned laboratory to test their products. The minister of state for Industry, Trade and Investment, Ambassador Mariam Katagum, stated this at the commissioning of SON’s North East Regional/ Bauchi State Office and Laboratory complex in Bauchi. She expressed optimism that, with the complex, MSMEs from the North East Zone, would in the immediate future attain high position in the ranking of MSME’S in Nigeria, urging SON to expedite the process for the accreditation of the laboratories to the relevant standards for entities to patronise the facility while also getting value for their money. Indeed, MSMEs, she stressed, are veritable platforms for achieving economic growth, hence their products must meet the minimum requirements of the Nigeria Industrial Standards (NIS) especially at a time when the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) is nearing full take off. She, however, implored the governor of Bauchi state to engage with SON for proper certification of its facilities in order to assure both local and international tourists that the laboratory is fit for purpose. She said the ministry is well aware that there is abundant market for Nigeria’s products especially in markets with ethical consumers, saying that these markets include the Halal market which is estimated at $2.3 trillion. According to her, this is a market that Nigeria cannot continue to ignore, hence the decision of the Ministry to collaborate with SON in establishing the necessary procedures for the establishment of an internationally recognised Halal certification in Nigeria. Also, the director-general and chief executive, SON, Mallam Farouk Salim said the choice of Bauchi was informed by the excellent disposition of its people who are great entrepreneurs in diverse aspects of commerce and industry. He said, it was also designed to meet the needs of the MSME’s  major drivers for the economic development of  the  country. He said: “the laboratories in this complex are deliberately designed to meet the needs of MSMEs who are major drivers of the economic development of our country. The construction of this facility is therefore, part of the holistic plan of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria to reduce cost of business for MSME’s in the North East, thereby contributing to the federal government policy of ease of doing business.” He further stated that testing is a critical component of conformity assessment programme of SON, which in turn is one of the pillars of national quality infrastructure of the country.  