Forty political parties under the aegis of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), South South and South East geopolitical zones have vowed to work for the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. The spokesman of the coalition, Prince Henry Eze, supported by the chairman of the Action Alliance (AA), Barr Ken Ikeh and eight other chairmen of opposition parties said in Asaba, Delta State that Atiku would rescue Nigeria. According to them, “Nigerians now look back with great nostalgia to the days of PDP. Hence, we took a critical look at the return of PDP through Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and Governor Ifeanyi Okowa joint ticket, to play the critical role of restructuring, uplifting and uniting the country.” While urging Nigerians “to join hands with the coalition to enthrone justice, fairness and equity of the Atiku-Okowa joint ticket, reject religious bigotry,” the parties said Atiku and his running mate, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, have bridled their ambition for national interest, hence Nigerians should vote them to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. “For eight years, the APC brought untold hardship and frustration on over 200 million Nigerians in the area of freefall of the naira, biting fuel scarcity, banditry and kidnapping, incessant ASUU and NMA strikes; highway, waterway, airway and railway attacks.” He said 11 states – Edo, Bayelsa, Delta, Akwa-Ibom, Rivers, Cross River, Abia, Anambra, Enugu, Ebonyi and Imo – have observed that education, health, agricultural, infrastructural and mineral sectors have all decayed, owing to the ruling APC’s ineptitude which must be changed for the good of the people. He said the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the APC was an insult on the sensibility of the citizenry. “Atiku chose his running mate in 2019 and 2023 from the South East and South South respectively to balance up the equation. “Nigeria needs a candidate that can bridle his ambition for national interest. Okowa has made Delta State a safe-haven for all to stay and do business. Atiku has investments in shipping, media, education and skill acquisition, these are the qualities needed to tackle unemployment and secure the future our youths. They are the most qualified”, he said.   