Administrative Secretary of seven-time Nigeria league champions, Rangers International F.C of Enugu, Barrister Ferdinand Ugwuarua, has assured the club’s teeming fans of a positive result from Kaduna when the team traded tackles with Niger Tornadoes in a match day 4, Group B, NPFL 2023 abridged season. Ugwuarua, in an exclusive chat after the team’s last training session ahead of the encounter, stated that despite the club’ not too impressive start to the season which has seen it garner a solitary point from a possible nine, he was optimistic that the team has turned the difficulty curve and ready to challenge for the top prize in the league. “This time around, we are assuring our teaming fans all over the world that we are going to come from Kaduna making them proud. It’s going to be a game like no other. The players are motivated just as the management and coaches are to have a good result to savor in Kaduna,” said the youthful club scribe. In a similar development, the national chairman of Rangers Supporters Club, Dr. Orji Iloakazie, has called on all supporters of the club to be patient with the team which he believes will soon wipe away the tears of a not-too-impressive start to the current season. Orji, who visited the team’s training session with some executive members ahead of the match day 4, NPFL encounter against Niger Tornadoes in Kaduna said that he was optimistic about the chances of the club in the encounter going by the determination and work ethics displayed by the players. He stated, “We came to see for ourselves the training regime and I must confess that what we have seen is quite encouraging and I am optimistic of our team getting a good result in Kaduna. We also came to let the players understand what Rangers means and urged them to imbibe our philosophy going forward.” Furthermore, Orji said, “I urge all lovers and followers of this team to be patient, and very soon we will start smiling again. Rangers will rise again.” The ‘Flying Antelopes’, Rangers International F.C will this weekend, engage Niger Tornadoes that currently occupy the third spot on Group B log with six points in Kaduna.