The minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Sen George Akume has called for the motivation of civil servants, stating that it is the only way they would bring out their best to enhance productivity. According to the minister, to encourage hard-work, creativity, professionalism and teamwork in the civil service cadet, the staff must be motivated. Speaking when his ministry rewarded 40 civil servants in various categories of ministerial award, departmental award, recognition of retirees, posthumous recognition, recognition of sports medalists and recognition for outstanding performance, Akume said if the civil service must continue to be productive, hardworking people must be recognised and rewarded. “We’re gathered here to recognise and celebrate staff of the ministry who have distinguished themselves in various categories. “We’re here to motivate them as it’s a vital aspect of any organisation. It is a type of remuneration that can psychologically encourage employees to focus and perform better in their job. “Tonight, award recipients, I congratulate you for the outstanding achievements in various categories as the honour bestowed on you today is an indication that the ministry recognises and appreciates your effort and it’s asking you to do more for greater recognition,” Akume said. The head of service of the federation (HoS), Mrs Folashade Yemi-Esan, lauded the gesture of the ministry, stating that the federal government instituted the mechanism to ensure that hardworking and committed civil servants are fairly and timely appreciated and rewarded while serving. The HoS, who was represented by one of the permanent secretaries in the ministry, Dr Ngozi Onwudiwe, stressed that the event is targeted at improving productivity as well as attracting, nurturing and retaining the best employees within the service. The permanent secretary, Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Mrs Ibiene Patricia Roberts commended the awardees and tasked other employees to redouble their efforts and commitment to be graciously rewarded someday.