 The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) said it has delivered a 100MVA power transformer at its substation at the Benin Region, subregional office, Benin. The company said on its official Twitter handle  @TCN_NIGERIA, the transformer received yesterday, is for upgrading as it will replace an existing 40MVA power transformer in the substation. According to TCN, “The substation upgrade is part of TCN/ World Bank rehabilitation work at the Sub-Region. The company also said that prior to the delivery of the  100MVA power transformer, the accessories had been delivered to the substation in last month. Meanwhile, the company Benin Sub-Region is awaiting the delivery of another two number 300MVA power transformers, to complete the ongoing rehabilitation work at the switchyard. Earlier, TCN had announced that that it will carry out preventive maintenance on its Ayede – McPherson – Sagamu 132kV transmission line from Friday, 13th January, 2023 to Sunday, 15th January, 2023, for nine hours each day, from 08:00 am to 05:00 pm for the three days. TCN general manager, Public Affairs Mrs Ndidi Mbah, said on Thursday in a statement, “In view of this, there will be load diversion from Ikorodu Transmission Substation to Sagamu Transmission Substation and consequently load shedding for the three- day period. “Some of the areas that will be affected, include Sagamu, Ikenne, Remo, and Oguo townships. Also, NNPC, MetalAfrigue Company Celplass Company, Real Infrastructure, Babcock Hospital and University areas will equally experience load shedding. “TCN reiterates that bulk power diversion from Ikorodu Substation is essential to enable it’s contractor carry out the replacement of 2No. lattice tubular poles of towers 534 and 535 along the Ayede – McPherson – Sagamu 132kV transmission line. The preventive maintenance work is highly expedient to forestall the collapse of the tower. “TCN sincerely apologises for every inconvenience this would cause electricity consumers living within the specified areas.  