The minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Bello, has said that the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has over the last seven and a half years repositioned the Nigerian economy and put it firmly on the path of growth and economic sustainability beyond the oil and gas sector.  The minister, who made this known at the 2022 Annual LEADERSHIP Conference and Awards in Abuja on Tuesday, said that a lot of attention was therefore focused on the agricultural, mining, and solid mineral sectors as well as the development of the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) sector.  The event, which was themed ‘Credible Elections and Economy in Transition’, was chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and former Prime Minister of Kenya, Raila Odinga, as keynote speaker.  The Minister further said that the government’s action has in effect put the Nigerian economy on the path to growth and economic recovery, which can only be achieved through free and fair elections where the in-coming administration will build on the legacies of President Buhari.  “Like many others gathered here today await the thoughts of Prime Minister Raila Odinga on this very important topic and the robust conversations that are sure to follow.  “On behalf of the FCT administration and the entire residents of the city of Abuja, it is indeed my honour and pleasure to be here today for the 2022 LEADERSHIP Annual Conference and Awards,” he said.  The minister also commended the chairman of the board of directors of LEADERSHIP Newspapers Group, Mrs. Zainab Nda-Isiah, management, and staff, for sustaining the annual event and keeping alive the memory and legacies of the founder, late Sam Nda-Isaiah.  While speaking on the theme for the event, Bello said it could certainly not have been better timed.  “This is because the 2023 general elections are considered by many as perhaps the most important leadership recruitment decisions to confront Nigerians in recent times.  “According to available figures, an unprecedented number of Nigerians particularly the youths are poised to cast their ballots in just over 3 weeks. His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, has insisted on bequeathing to Nigeria, a free, fair, credible, and transparent election,” the FCT Minister stated.