The director-general of the Governorship Campaign Council of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bauchi State, Farouk Mustapha has the party is strategically set to retain the governorship seat after this year’s gubernatorial election in the state. Mustapha said this in Bauchi while honouring the winners of the just concluded Kaura Video Documentary Competition with prizes including a car, Keke-napep and cash. He appealed to voters to reject all the candidates of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the upcoming elections because of the failure of the party. The director general said governor Bala Mohammed has endeared himself and PDP to Bauchi voters such that people of the state do not reckon with other political parties. He said any attempt by the oppositions in Bauchi to oust PDP from power will be futile as the party has penetrated the nooks and crannies of the state through the various life-touching projects executed for the people in the last three years. Mustapha said the competition has already added value to the activities of the campaign council. The director general said aside from the Video Documentary Competition which exposes the laudable achievements of Governor Bala Mohammed, the campaign council will soon unveil new promotional campaign initiatives so as to ensure massive votes for all the PDP candidates in the forthcoming general elections. Mustapha who congratulated the winners of the Kaura Video Documentary Competition urged them to use the opportunity to serve as ambassadors of the campaign council by promoting and sensitizing voters on the good intention of the governor for greater Bauchi state. “What really informed my decision as the Director-General of this campaign council to organize this competition is to give the opportunity to our youth and women who are active on social media platforms to bring out the developmental projects of my principal, His Excellency, Governor Bala Mohammed for those who are not aware of the achievements of the governor for us to easily get feedback on the performances of the governor. “Governor Bala Mohammed has done so much, the developmental strides he achieved were commended by many and for us in the campaign council, we can say we have achieved our target of organising this competition with more than 254 participants, and millions of viewers.”