 One person has been confirmed dead after operatives of the Lagos State Police Command and Yoruba Nation agitators clashed on Monday in Lagos. It was gathered that the Yoruba Nation agitators had planned to hold a mega rally at Ojota area of Lagos to press for self-determination. LEADERSHIP, however, gathered that the yet-to-be identified victim was part of the Yoruba Nation agitators while several others were confirmed injured. Eyewitnesses, who informed that there were sporadic gunshots, could, however, not give details of how the planned rally to press for self-determination assumed a violent dimension. Though, there were unconfirmed reports that three persons, including a Policeman were gunned down in the ensuing crossfire. But, reacting to the incident in a statement on his verified social media handles, Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Benjamin Hudenyin, blamed the violence on people he described as gun-wielding miscreants masquerading as Yoruba Nation agitators. He said four suspects have been arrested after they unleashed mayhem in the area, thereby disrupting economic and social activities including attacking Policemen and destroying their vehicles. Hundeyin said: “In the early hours of today, miscreants masquerading as Yoruba Nation Agitators came out in their hundreds, disrupting social and commercial activities at Ojota area of the State. “A team of police officers, comprising Alausa Division and the Raid Respond Squad (RRS) promptly stepped in to disperse the unlawful gathering and prevent a breakdown of law and order. The miscreants attacked the police, shooting, and destroyed two vehicles in the process. “One person has been confirmed dead, while two police officers shot by the miscreants are currently receiving treatment. Four suspects have been arrested and investigations have commenced.
Meanwhile, normalcy has been restored to the area. Lagosians are urged to go about their lawful businesses as measures have been put in place to prevent further breakdown of law and order; and keen monitoring of the situation continues. “It is imperative to state unequivocally that the Lagos State Police Command will not allow any person or group of persons, under whatever guise, disrupt the peace currently enjoyed in the State.”