The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Council (PDP PCC), has raised the alarm that the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, have resorted to blackmail in partnership with one Mike Achimogu. Achimogu, in a viral video, claimed to be a former aide of Atiku, and executed certain corrupt hatchet jobs for the PDP presidential candidate when he was vice president.  Addressing journalists in Asaba, Delta State on Tuesday, spokesperson of the PDP Campaign Council, Charles Aniagwu, disproved the claims by Achimugu, that it was intended not only to blackmail the former vice president of Nigeria, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and also to distract Nigerians from the real issues ahead of next month’s presidential election.  Aniagwu, who is the Commissioner for Information in Delta State, said Achimogu was never a staff of Atiku, adding that the corruption allegations he made against the PDP presidential candidate in the video, were false.  While telling Nigerians not to be distracted by cheap blackmail being sponsored by APC, he said APC was afraid of the acceptance of the PDP presidential candidate.  According to Aniagwu, the PDP understood clearly what the issues were, and that the party was determined to address the issues through the Atiku-Okowa presidency.  “The Mike Achimogu was not a staff of Atiku, he worked in one of the support groups and closely with the daughter, he was not employed by Atiku. In their unbridled quest to expand Tinubu’s grip on the state, they have cooked up stories. They have gone to wake a blackmailer and call him a whistle blower.  “And this is because they have seen that Atiku has captured the hearts of many Nigerians based on the conviction by a good number of Nigerians that Atiku has got what it takes to rescue the country and put it on the path of progress and development.  “And so for the likes of Festus Keyamo and Femi Fani Kayode to be shouting and screaming that they want to get a petition, is to say the least, very uncharitable. Achimogu is a blackmailer who cannot be taken seriously.  “As a political party and as a campaign council, we do know what the issues are, which is that most Nigerians have lost their jobs; more than 133 million Nigerians are now suffering from multi-dimensional poverty; our infrastructure are not in the best of shape; our unity is terribly challenged.  “And there is a need for our children to have the best of education to curb brain drain; we need to grow the economy and progress the country from this very consumptive atmosphere to a much more productive environment. Those are the issues,” he added.  Aniagwu said an Atiku presidency will unite the country and end divisive tendencies, build enduring infrastructure, address insecurity and amend the constitution to devolve more powers to the component units of the Federation.  He stated that the aim of the APC and it candidate, Tinubu, was to plunged Nigeria into internal slavery, and urged the electorate to be wary of the ruling party.  “You know what slavery did to us. So we cannot bring back internal slave masters to come and govern us to determine how the means of production will be distributed.  “We urge Nigerians not to be distracted from what the issues are, it is just about 38 days to the general elections, they just want to bring up issues that will distract us from where we are and what we are doing.  “And any attempt to get distracted, that will amount to yielding ourselves to the slave intents of those who have visited some elements of slavery on Lagos by collecting a whole lot of resources with a claim that they astronomically raise the IGR without Lagosians benefiting the essence of the very high rise in IGR,” he claimed.  The PDP spokesman alleged that Tinubu and his family were in charge of controlling the strategic revenue sources of Lagos State, adding the APC standard bearer has also reserved the sole right to determine who governs the State against the wishes of majority of Lagosians.