The federal government has charged the governing board of the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) to deploy its resources and potential to assist the federal government’s quest to reduce poverty in Nigeria by removing 100 million people out of poverty. The minister of Science Technology and Innovation (STI), Sen. Adeleke Mamora gave the charge during the inauguration of the governing board of NOTAP in Abuja recently, even as he tasked the board to imbibe the five important Cs  of  cooperation, cordiality, coordination, collaboration and communication to achieve its given mandate. The minister said further that the board members must do their best to make a difference while it lasts, because it is a privilege to be appointed into a position of service. “Try to make a difference in terms of what you do with commitment and diligence. Don’t have the ‘me attitude’ rather, have the ‘we attitude’, because we are stronger together. We cannot inherit the good things and pretend not to want to inherit the bad things. You inherit access; you will also inherit liability,” he said. Earlier, the minister of state for STI, Chief Henry Ikoh called on the board members to bequeath a fruitful legacy to their successors. “Your appointment is based on your track records. However, within the period of your service, you are expected to make a positive difference. I urge you to leave a legacy that will be valued and treasured by those that will come thereafter. “One of the cardinal points of the current administration is to move 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. I, therefore, advise you to work towards achieving this goal,” Ikoh said. The permanent secretary of the ministry and the chairperson of NOTAP Governing Board, Mrs. Monilola Udoh, who was represented by the Director of Health Biomedical Science (HBS), Dr. David Erabhahiemen, promised to implement the 5Cs’ principle to achieve its mandate. Also speaking, the director general of NOTAP, Dr. DanAzumi Ibrahim said the Office is only interested in moving the nation forward. “We will have a strong relationship with the ministry and I assure commitment to work with the board,” he said.