 Plateau State governor, Simon Lalong has given automatic employment to thirteen first class graduates of the Plateau State University, Bokkos (PLASU). The offers were announced during the 6th and 7th combined convocation of the university at the weekend. The students were also given certificates and cash. Governor Lalong, who is also the visitor to the university, said he was delighted with the growth of the Plateau State University which started with so much enthusiasm but later suffered setbacks and was nearly aborted by some people for reasons best known to them. According to him, the gains of the establishment of the university have begun to manifest to the consternation of many skeptics and pessimists who did not wish the university well but have now turned around to lay claim to its success. He used the opportunity to pay tribute to the former Governor of Plateau State, Senator Joshua Dariye, who took the bold step to establish the university despite all odds. He also appreciated former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon who defied skeptics and threw his full weight behind the university. Lalong encouraged the fresh graduates to look beyond certificates and add value to the society by practical demonstration of the knowledge acquired as the state and nation is in dire need for solutions to various challenges and is looking up to them. He called on the management and academic staff of the university to also deepen their research and teaching into the critical challenges that are common to Plateau State and nation. Lalong also received accolades for reviving the university which was not faring well when he assumed office but he put it back on the path of growth and excellence. Chairman of the governing council, Prof Francis Obiora Ike said apart from reviving the university, the governor has invested resources in the institution and also created synergy with the federal government and the private sector to create opportunities for the growth of the varsity. Prof Obiora said the university has gradually expanded and is making inroads in the national and international academic spheres. Vice chancellor of the university, Prof Yohanna Izam said the administration of Governor Lalong has proved skeptics wrong by revamping the institution and putting it on a strong footing, thereby making it one of the best in the country particularly among its peers. He said it was because of the passion and zeal of the governor that the university got support for the accreditation of all its courses as well as the introduction of new ones. Prof Izam said the new faculties were made possible because of the investment of the state government as well as the interventions by TetFund in physical infrastructure and manpower development. Prof Izam further said 1,356 students were being awarded degrees in various disciplines having fulfilled all the conditions for the award and found to be of good character and learning. The vice chancellor added that while a lot has been achieved, there is still much to be done to address the challenges of water, power, security and fencing, hostels and staff quarters. Honorary doctorate degrees were awarded to deserving personalities including Prof Ochapa Onazi, Prof Isawa Elaigwu and Dr Dere Awosika. The governor commissioned some projects which include Post Graduate School, University Rock Garden named after the governor, advancement and linkages office block and Faculty of Agriculture.  