All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Bauchi State, Saddique Abubakar, said that the party would take medical outreach to all local government areas when given the mandate. Abubakar, also a former Chief of Air Staff, stated this in Azare, the headquarters of Katagum local government area of Bauchi state at the end of a three-day medical outreach, organised by Tinubu/Shettima and Abubakar Support Group known as ‘Jigi-Jagaban’ at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Azare. The APC gubernatorial candidate lauded all the staff of the medical facility for giving the group and the APC the necessary support required to provide the medical outreach to the indigents in the area. “I want to say that the APC government in Bauchi State and at the federal level under Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, when he becomes the president in 2023, would be organizing this kind of activity in every local government. “We will try to take medical services to the people. “The people don’t even have to come to us but we will go to them through medical outreaches In-Sha-Allahu. So, let’s vote from top to bottom,” he said. Addressing the press, the chief medical director of FMC in Azare, Dr Abubakar Katagum, said over 5,000 people have been attended to on different ailments such as; hypertension, diabetes, cataract and other minor eye problems. According to him, 1,010 surgeries had been successfully conducted on cataracts while over 1000 eyeglasses had also been distributed. He explained that the hospital has the capability to take up to 2000 patients at a time, adding that he has no problems with the number of people trooping in to access the medical outreach. The CMD, however, called on all well-meaning Nigerians and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) to collaborate with medical facilities in organising this kind of outreach that have a direct bearing on the lives of the people especially, the less privileged. Mr Ayo Adegbite, the coordinator, Jigi-Jagaban medical outreach, said the idea was to bring health closer to the people especially, from the grassroots. This, he said, is one of the visions and missions of the APC presidential candidate, Ahmed Tinubu with no exception of all the gubernatorial candidates of the party across the country. Malam Sani Abubakar, one of the beneficiaries who spoke on behalf of others, lauded the Jigi-Jagaban initiative for providing such a ‘life-saving’ programme to the common men in the area. He said that the gesture would remain indelible in their hearts.