The Kogi State Government has issued a query to the paramount traditional ruler of Ebira Land, the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland, Dr. Ado Ibrahim, over his actions considered to be disloyal and disrespectful to the offices and persons of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Yahaya Bello.  The Ohinoyi of Ebiralad was specifically accused of refusing to come out to join other functionaries to welcome President Buhari to the state on Thursday, December 29, 2022.  President Buhari, who was in the State to inaugurate some projects including the Palace of the Ohinoyi, which was built by Governor Bello, was received by top government officials and foremost traditional rulers but the Ohinoyi, who is Vice President of Kogi State Council of Chiefs was conspicuously absent.  In a letter of query addressed to the prominent monarch, dated January 5, 2023 and signed by the Director of Chieftaincy Affairs, Enimola Eniola, on behalf of the State’s Commissioner for Local Governments and Chieftaincy Affairs, the traditional ruler was also accused of exhibiting deliberate attitude and actions capable of bringing “Kogi State and Ebiraland in particular to grave disrepute.”  According to the query, Dr. Ibrahim refused to come out and receive the President at the designated venue, which was rightly approved by Governor Bello.  The letter reads, “It has been observed with serious concern that you have exhibited deliberate attitude and actions capable of bringing Kogi State and Ebira land in particular to grave disrepute. These actions are quite unbecoming of a revered Royal Father of your status.  “Specifically, you were aware through many fora of the glorious visit of Mr. President and Commander-in-Chief of Nigerian Armed Forces, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari to Okene on 29th December, 2022 to commission landmark projects executed by our dear Governor, His Excellency, Alh. Yahaya Bello. In a flagrant disregard to the persons and high offices of the President and the Governor, you bluntly refused to come out and receive the President at the designated venue rightly approved by the Executive Governor of the State.  “It might interest you to note that official courtesy demands that when a personality of a President occupying the highest office in the land is visiting or even passing through the State, the Governor and top Public Officers including topmost Traditional Rulers are expected to receive him as a mark of respect for him and the Office he occupies. It is on record that in time past, Topmost Traditional Rulers including the President, Kogi State Council of Chiefs do receive the Governor of the State on his return from critical missions undertaken on behalf of the State. But, you have chosen to disdain the office of the Executive Governor, and this time, you did it with effrontery before the number one citizen of Nigeria.  “This action of yours is an act of insubordination and disloyalty to the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces, the Executive Governor of Kogi State and the entire Ebira nation as a whole. It portends grave danger to the security of the State and laying bad precedence for Traditional Institution of the State.  “In view of the above, I have been directed to request you to forward a written explanation within 48 hours why disciplinary action should not be taken against you for these acts of insubordination and disloyalty. Oral explanations may be required from you when a panel is set up to study your case. It is expected that you will accord priority to the content of this letter, Your Royal Majesty.”  Already tongues were wagging in the State over the development as not a few people have attributed political difference to the strained relationship between Bello and the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland.  It will be recalled that the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland had recently expressed his support for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senatorial candidate in Kogi Central, Natasha Akpoti-Uduaghan, a development considered offensive to Governor Bello and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).