 Former Imo State governors, Rochas Okorocha, and Emeka Ihedioha, including the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, were among the dignitaries that stormed Egbema community in Imo State, for the burial of Lolo Caroline Uju, mother of a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Kingsley Uju-Chima, on Thursday. Uju-Chima, who represents Ohaji/Egbema, Oguta, Oru federal constituency of the State, buried his late mother in style with dignataries from all walks of life in attendance at his country home. According to a statement signed by Uju-China, former Governor Okorocha said that the late Caroline Uju was a God-fearing woman and a role model who produced the personality of the lawmaker, who was his former deputy Chief of Staff. The former governor prayed God to give the family the fortitude to bear the loss. Uju-Chima while thanking fellow lawmakers and other personalities from across the political parties and States for gracing the ceremony to honour his late mother, said: “I want to truly, from my heart appreciate you all. I can see the show of love. And may God bless you all. “You have honoured my family, you have honoured my late mother and you have honoured the Lord. “As you have honoured us, it is my prayer that the Lord God will honour you individually and collectively as we grow in the name of Jesus. “I want to thank specifically, the good people of Ohaji/Egbema/Oguta/Oru West federal constituency, former governors of Imo State, my colleagues, numbering over 30 and representative of Ooni of Ife, for gracing the burial ceremony.” Uju-Chima said that he was particularly over joyed that none out of the thousands of people that graced the occasion was in anyway hurt or unaccounted. Late Caroline Uju died early in 2022, aged 68-year-old. Other personalities at the burial included members of the National Assembly namely Chief Gerald Irona, a former deputy governor of the State; PDP national secretary, Senator Sam Daddy Anyanwu; Hon. Chinyere Igwe, Hon. Sadipe Akande, Hon. Garba Datti Mohammed, and Ugonna Ozuruigbo. Also in attendance were
Hon. Henry Igbomezie, Dr Chioma Nwachukwu, Director, Corporate Services Seplat; Chief Don Okoli; Mr George Moghalu; Engr. Julius Okenya; Bishop Omaegbu, HRH Chardrick Ogor; Eze Okwordu-led Ohaji/Egbema Traditional Rulers, Eze Okafor Led Oguta Traditional Rulers while Eze Mgbidi led Oru West Traditional Rulers, Chief Don okoli, and Chief Mike Ikoku. Others were: Okwudiri Eze Nwankwo, Chinedu Emeka Martins, Ikenna Elezianya, Saidu Musa Abdullahi, Aniekam Umana, Gboluga Ikengboju, Patrick Aisowieren, Ahmed Shehu, Bashir Dawodu, Allhassan Kabiru, Ahmed Shehu, Abubakar Abubakar and Jones Onyereri, Uche Nwosu, Heclus Okoro, Emeka Benjamin, Stanley Onyiriuka, Ejike Asinkonye and U. Ezediaro. Other top dignitaries included: Abiodun Owonikoko (SAN); Mohammed Bello Koko, the managing director, Nigerian Ports Authority; Prof. Maduebibisi Iwe, Vice Chancellor, Michael Opara University of Agriculture. Traditional rulers at the burial included the Ooni of Ife, represented by Oba Solomon Adebire Adewole, Eze Chadwick Nkem Ogor (Eze ali of Mgbede Community), HRH Eze Kenneth Aliba (Traditional ruler, Egbema Kingdom),HRH Nelson Ekperi, Chief Kingsley Obiye, (Egbema Council of Chiefs) and HRH Eze S. Okwuodu (Etekwuru, Egbema) and all traditional rulers from Egbema in Rivers. Some of the officiating priests at the event are Rt- Revd Chidi Collins Oparajiaku, Anglican Bishop of Ohaji/Egbema, Rt. Rev. Chijioke Oti, Bishop of Oguta Anglican Diocese and Rt. Rev. Chukwunenye Geoffrey, Oru West Anglican Diocese and over 50 other clergy men. Thrilling the guests in music were artistes like Chioma Jesus, Kola boy, Mr 2 Kay, Bulkwild, King Jabin, Danny Spry (comedian), Dj Specie, Splendid, M-kaze, Joseph Chimezie, T& B dance group, and body language dancers.