Gombe State governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, has presented gifts of two brand new cars to the overall best winners of the 26th Gombe State Qur’an Recitation Competition. The competition held at Billiri, between 27th November and 3rd December, 2022. The overall winners who received the gift from the governor are: Mubarak Muhammad Aruwa from Gombe local government who emerged the overall winner of 60 Hizb with Tafsir in male category and Aishatu Kabiru Shu’aibu from Akko local government who emerged overall winner of 60 Hizb with Tafsir in female category. Governor Inuwa also presented cheques for the Gombe State participants who won prizes at the national competition. The cheques are prizes the participants received from the national competition held earlier this year in Gusau, Zamfara State. The Gombe State representatives who emerged winners at the national competition are: Aishatu Kabiru Shu’aibu who came 3rd in 60 Hizb with Tafseer and received 2 million Naira Cheque; Maryam Ibrahim Dan Azumi, 2nd Position 60 Hizb Without Tafseer, 2 million Naira Cheque; Mudarrif Abubakar, 6th position, 40 Hizb presented with 700,000 Naira cheque; Abdulrahman M. Abubakar 20 Hizb, 5th position, presented with 700,000 Naira cheque; Fatima Muhammad Abubakar, 4th position, 20 hizb who received a cheque of 700,000 Naira. Other five participants who represented the State at the national competition but did not make it to the winners list received consolation prizes of 50,000 Naira each from the governor. In his address, Governor Inuwa Yahaya said education formed the focal point of his administration, hence the huge investment and consistent support to the sector to enable it provide the needed human resources for the development of the state and the nation at large. He said Qur’an Recitation Competition is an important annual event organised with the aim of promoting Qur’anic Education and the good morals of Islamic religion in general, emphasising that his administration will continue to support the course of the competition for the role it plays in preserving and promoting societal peace, unity and progress. “The competition had been ongoing in the state for quite long, but when we came in, we added impetus to it by giving bigger prizes and giving incentives to those that are winning”, he said. To ensure equity and justice for all, governor Inuwa said his administration prepared similar package for Christian faithful.  “Equally in the Bible competition from our Christian brethren, we have already provided prizes for those that went for Bible Competition. And when the committee set up comes up with the report, we shall also present prizes for them”, he said. Inuwa urged other people, especially youths to emulate these outstanding personalities that are uplifting the name of the state. “I pray that our younger ones will imbibe, and learn from these worthy ambassadors that have gone to do Gombe proud”, he said. Ealier in her address, the commissioner for education, Dr Aishatu Umar Maigari, extolled Governor Inuwa Yahaya’s uncommon zeal and commitment towards uplifting the standard of education in the state. She specifically noted the governor’s Almajiri Integrated School Programme as one project that will promote Qur’anic and western education concurrently while instilling various skills to the learners to become self-reliant and contribute their quota in the development of their society. Dr Aisha cited the already completed Goni Sani Ultra-Modern Tsanya Integrated School built by Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya and other similar projects in the education sector as legacies that will benefit both the present and future generations.  