The International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES) has said the outcome of the 2023 general elections in Nigeria will impact the struggle for democracy in the African continent and the world. President of IFES, Mr. Anthony Banbury, who disclosed this during a courtesy visit to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headquarters yesterday in Abuja, said the commission’s ability to deliver credible elections will impact the continent. He also said the actions of Nigerians and voters will constitute the most significant impact around the world this year. Banbury noted that IFES has been working in Nigeria, and supporting INEC efforts since the return of democracy in 1999. “And since that period, the people of Nigeria with the leadership of the Commission have made such important strides in the strengthening and consolidation of democracy and electoral integrity throughout the country,” he stated. He added that Nigeria’s leadership in Africa and indeed around the world is an inspiration to people in the consolidation of struggling democracies around the world. INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, while speaking at the occasion reiterated the commitment of the electoral body to conduct free, fair, and credible elections. He stressed that the will of Nigerians will prevail during the election. “We have increasingly built on what our immediate predecessors did by deepening the use of technology in elections. We have introduced on the back of the successful deployment of the smart card readers, the bimodal voter accreditation system (BVAS).” Yakubu said the Commission has decided to test-run the device by conducting a mock accreditation exercise. “We have announced that this exercise is going to happen on Saturday, the 4th of February, and it is going to happen this Weekend. So once again, I seize the opportunity of this visit to appeal to Nigerians to please go to the designated polling units.” Yakubu said having released the timetable for the election in February last year and identified 14 activities, the Commission has successfully implemented 12 activities. He said only two activities are outstanding. “The first one is the end of the campaign by political parties, which by law is 24 hours before polling day, which is going to be on the 23rd of February for the presidential election and the state election governorship and State Assembly and then the Election Day proper, which is on the 25th of February for the presidential and National Assembly on the 11th of March for the state elections,” he said. He stressed that while the Commission will commence the training of ad-hoc staff, it will also recruit more staff. He also lauded the efforts and commitment of IFES to the Commission over the years. Yakubu also tasked Nigerians to avail themselves of the ample opportunity to collect their voters’ cards ahead of the elections. He stressed that the commissioner is excited by the level of preparation for the election. He added that the commission is now in talks with transport unions to ensure swift movement during the elections. 