The Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), has re-arrested a former registrar of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Adedibu Ojerinde. The ICPC said Prof. Ojerinde’s re-arrest in Abuja on Thursday followed a warrant issued to that effect by a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja. ICPC spokesperson, Azuka Ogugua, said Ojerinde is expected to face a team of investigators over new evidence uncovered in relation to his ongoing trial for diversion of funds while he was a public officer. ICPC operatives uncovered two accounts opened in the names of Trillium Learning Centre Ltd and Sapati International Schools Ltd into which funds were diverted using fictitious names of students. Recall that the ICPC had on December 12, 2022 invited the former JAMB registrar for questioning over the new evidence but he wrote through his Solicitor requesting for 14-day grace to enable him honour the invitation. Ojerinde, however, refused to honour the invitation as undertaken by his counsel after the expiration of the 14-day grace on December 27, 2022. Ogugua also said in the course of its ongoing investigation, the ICPC unearthed new evidence that suggested that Ojerinde was the sole signatory to various bank accounts operated in the name of Trillium Learning Centre Ltd and Sapati International School Ltd. Ojerinde reportedly operated those accounts using false identities and forged documents in the names of Joshua Olakulehin Olaniran and Akanbi Lamidi respectively. He also reportedly used another false identity, Adeniyi Banji, to operate a separate account in the name of Standout Institutes Ltd. The ICPC has recovered the cheque books of the companies’ accounts from Ojerinde, who has been taken into custody at the headquarters of the anti-graft Commission. The Commission may likely prosecute the former JAMB Registrar before a Court of competent jurisdiction for offences bothering on forgery of documents, stolen identity, money laundering and concealment of gratification if the new evidence is confirmed.