 Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said the role played by the Presidential candidate of Alll Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in the infrastructure and development being witnessed in Lagos State in the last two decades cannot be overemphasised. Governor Sanwo-Olu who set the record straight, , given some misgivings  in certain quarters said Tinubu was the brain behind the development master plan being implemented by successive administrations in Lagos, which has elevated governance in the state. This, Sanwo-Olu said, is a fact that could not be denied by anyone who worked closely with the former Lagos Governor from 1999 to 2007. Governor Sanwo-Olu spoke as the special guest at Your View, a broadly watched show on Television Continental (TVC), where he spoke about his government’s achievements, his re-election, family values and relationship with the APC presidential candidate. Lagos is widely believed to be the model for good governance, infrastructure renewal and innovation. The state recently made history as the first sub-national entity in Africa to complete modern intra-city rail infrastructure without federal budgetary allocation – feat widely applauded. Governor Sanwo-Olu said Tinubu could not be deprived of the credit for the reforms that set the direction for the infrastructural programmes delivered by his successors to transform Lagos to one of the biggest economies in Africa. The Governor, who said his working relationship with Tinubu began in 2002, emphasising that he was a living witness to development of Lagos State Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (LASEEDS) under the leadership of Tinubu. The LASEEDS document, Sanwo-Olu said, was harmonised with a 10-point agenda document and became the precursor to the Lagos State Development Master Plan (LSDP) that originated from the Lagos Economic Summit (Ehingbeti) initiated by the Tinubu administration. He said: “With all sense of humility, I joined the Tinubu government over 20 years ago. I was General Manager in my bank before I joined Tinubu in November 2002. From the very first day of my appointment, I was in Tinubu’s cabinet and I saw things first hand. “I am a living witness to the development vision put forward by Tinubu. It’s not something we should be blabbing about; it’s a fact we all know. Under the leadership of Tinubu, we set up documents called LASEEDS and SEEDS, which are economic development blueprints for Lagos. We also had what we called a 10-point agenda, which laid the foundation for revenue generation drive, transportation reform and public infrastructure renewal. “LASEEDS and SEEDS documents were a working blueprint for transformation in Lagos. We set up the Ehingbeti Economic Summit to run year on year, where we collate inputs from the private sector and put them in the flesh of public documents and generate a working paper we could implement. I was the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, so I was part of those that developed the documents. Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA), for example, did not just come out of the space; Tinubu set up LAMATA with the World Bank in 2002. I was part of the first set of personnel that worked in LAMATA, which is one of the best transportation agencies in the world. “That’s how the blueprint was developed and we had a 20-year development plan for it, which former Governor Babatunde Raji Fashola improved on. He expunged some items and replaced them based on the realities of the period. Former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode did similar things. Our Government is doing the same, because there is continuity. We’re able to see the challenges of previous governments and we decided on those things we can take quickly. Tinubu deserves the credit because he is the one that was able to bake the first retinue of very intelligent people that worked with him to develop an implementable blueprint.” Sanwo-Olu dismissed the speculation in certain quarters that Tinubu had been running Lagos by proxy, noting that the former Governor had since moved to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in the last six years where he had been contributing his quota to national development and building the ruling party. The Governor, however, said Tinubu’s experience in governance qualified him as the right person from whom advice is sought regularly for direction. “Tinubu is a father and a man that I respect personally. I cannot take that away. Critics always want to say anything, but are we keeping our eyes on the ball? Yes. Are we doing the things Lagosians want us to do? Yes,” the Governor said. On why Lagosians should trust him with another mandate in the coming general election, Sanwo-Olu said: “One of the strongest points of a leader is for people to underrate you. You don’t have to be in people’s faces to get your tasks done. All you have to do is to roll up your sleeves and get the job done. Check out my background, integrity is what I live by. As a treasurer in a bank, my word is always my bond. If I give commitments, I keep to those commitments. “It is not about me alone. It is about our future and the legacy we should be leaving behind. We have kept faith with all the things we said we would do under the THEMES agenda. With all sense of responsibility, we have performed and earned people’s trust. Let’s join hands and be on this train together. We can imagine what’s coming in another four years.” Lagos Has Become Reference Point For Excellence In Administration, Visionary leadership – Methodist Prelate The Prelate, Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence Oliver Aba has said Lagos State has become a reference point for excellence in administration and visionary leadership. The clergyman stated this when he paid a courtesy visit to Lagos State Governor Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, at Lagos House Marina. Prelate Abah commended Governor Sanwo-Olu’s giant strides in Lagos State in different critical sectors, especially the Lagos Blue Line Rail, which is expected to be commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari later this month. He said: “Our general overview of Nigeria’s political and developmental landscape has left us in no doubt about the uncommon giant strides being recorded in the foremost State in Nigeria, Lagos. Through the vision, perspicacity, and tenacity of your administration and that of your predecessors, Lagos State has become the cynosure of all eyes and the reference point for excellence in administration, visionary leadership, and welfare for all Lagosians and more. “We want to give you assurance of our support as a church. Given the commendable succession plan in Lagos State which has assured incremental development and progress and the giant strides, projects, and vision of your administration, we do not have any doubts about your continuation in office through a resounding success during the 2023 elections. “You and all that pertain to you in the march for the progress of Lagos State and Nigeria shall continue to be in our prayers for divine empowerment and ennoblement to accomplish even more than you can humanly envision through the enabling grace in Christ Jesus! Amen. “The people called Methodists in Nigeria and in the Diasporas shall continue to have you in prayers for good health, insightful inspiration, and an excellent team of lieutenants as you take office for your second term in office as Governor of Lagos State and beyond!” Aba also assured Governor Sanwo-Olu of continuous collaboration and partnership between the church and Lagos State Government for mobilisation of Lagosians for progress, development, and the execution of the laudable plans of the Lagos Project and Scheme. Responding, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, urged religious leaders, particularly the Prelate and clergymen of the Methodist Church Nigeria to continuously pray for Nigeria and Lagos State as the country prepares for the forthcoming general elections. He said the prayers and counsel of the religious leaders are most needed at this crucial time especially as the country prepares for the general elections slated for February 25 and March 11. He also implored Nigerians to conduct themselves in a way and manner that will continue to guarantee the peace and security of the country. Governor Sanwo-Olu, who congratulated Aba on his election as the Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, also called for continuous collaboration, partnership, and the relationship between the church and government. He said: “It is the beginning of a new year and we expect that in the course of the year, a lot of things will happen in our country including the forthcoming elections. So there is no better time to continue to pray for this country and the state, to ensure that the wishes of the people are reflected. “We don’t have any other place and every one of us has a role to play as stakeholders and leaders in our community to ensure that we use our space well so that at the of the day, we still have a country, a state and people to continue to lead because we are in a position of leadership and God will bless all of us. Your prayers and counsel will be most needed at this time.”      