Chairman, Interim Management Committee (IMC), Gbenga Elegbeleye has said the new league body is determined to ensure an hitch free campaign this season. The 2022/23 Nigeria Professional Football League season (NPFL) will kick-off on Sunday. The IMC has adopted an abridged format for the new season Elegbeleye stated that the IMC has put measures in place to improve the league. “We have started a new phase in the development of our league. It’s quite different from the past. We want to have a league that Nigerians will be proud of,”Elegbeleye told Raypower 100.5 in an interview on Friday. “We have designed a new model where referees are going to be paid before they step on the pitch to officiate. ” A league without violence. A league where away teams can win matches without intimidation. This is what we are going to do now. Make the Nigerian league transparent and professional . One major problem bedeviling the NPFL is poor officiating with poor welfare package for the referees playing a key part. Elegbeleye hinted that emoluments for the referees have increased to ensure professionalism and fair officiating. “Referees will be paid before the day they will officiate. We have also increase their emoluments by 50%. Their transport allowance will also go up by 40%,” Elegbeleye added. “This is to allow them to be more comfortable and not be put under pressure. “We want to give our referees the chance to perform well so that they can get CAF and FIFA recognition. “Before now the referees were owed three years emoluments. We will take good care of them now and they must be fair professional on the field of play.” The sports administrator further added that the IMC is working hard to ensure NPFL matches are transmitted live on television. “The 2022/23 season will start on Sunday. We have an agreement with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) to transmit the only game for the weekend between Akwa United and Bendel Insurance live and other matches subsequently. “We are going to start with terrestrial television, before moving on to Cable TV. There is discussion going on as regards that .” 