How did you get involve in music? Music has always been a part of me since I was a young child. I’m self-taught in every instrument I play and can’t imagine a day without music in it. Which artiste would you like to collaborate with if budget wasn’t involved?
I’m not even going to lie, I have never thought of that… there’s too many to choose but I think it’s going to be Nasty C, Polo G and Drake. If you weren’t an artiste, what would you be doing right now? I’d be dead or something worse, because music has literally changed my life, only Lord knows where I would be if I didn’t have this outlet to showcase my self. What do you think is the best song or video you’ve ever released and why? For the video it’s yet to come. I’m grateful for the people that have worked with me on the visual aspect of my music, but I’m looking forward to working with a budget and being able to really bring my full vision to life. Do you think you’re at your prime in your career? Not yet, I think I have so much more to learn and experience, I’m actually looking forward to what the future is going to bring. How many songs do you have released on an estimate? Honestly, my first release “Coko” was more like a farewell song to pop smoke. At that time, I didn’t know much about online streaming, so naturally the release went unnoticed. However, I released my first EP “Preety Lil Drip” earlier this year and have many releases coming soon. Which is preferred, clear or dark liquor? Honestly, I do more drinking than smoking. Love both but I’m gonna go for dark liquor. If you could date or get along with any celebrity, who would it be and why? Megan Thee Stallion and it’s because I love her personality. If there was anything that could make you stop music what could it be?
Only God “no cap”, or maybe death. What message do you for your supporters and fans? Chase your dreams at all cost, never take no for an answer and most importantly know your truth and worth. You can reach out to Vancash Dollar on:
Instagram : @vancashdollar
Facebook : @vancashdollar
Twitter : @vancash_dollar