 Sokoto State All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate, Alhaji Ahmad Aliyu Sokoto, has pledged to provide purposeful leadership if elected. He made the promise at the gubernatorial campaign flag-off and presentation of flags to APC candidates contesting elections at both state and national levels held at Wamakko local government. Aliyu condemned the PDP administration in the state for its inability to fulfill one-third of its 2019 campaign promises made to the electorate in the state. He said; “If APC is given the mandate to govern the state, we will definitely change the narrative for the better. As governor I will inject life into the state civil service which has since been bastardised. Civil servants in the state have been demoralised with little or no passion for the job. “My administration will resuscitate agriculture, education, health and social welfare. An instance is the PDP’s poor policy in the state that is responsible for poor turnout in agricultural products as the state government failed to provide fertiliser and other aids like improved seeds, soft loans and chemicals to farmers,” he said. The director general of APC gubernatorial campaign council and minister of police affairs, Alhaji Maigari Dingyadi, assured that with the large turnout of supporters at the rally, he was optimistic of victory. He stated that despite the years out of governance, APC supporters remain intact, adding that the party would continue to champion the cause of people of the state by providing meaningful development that would improve their quality of life. In his remarks, the APC leader and senator representing Sokoto Central Senatorial District, Senator Aliyu Wamakko, urged eligible Nigerians to vote for credible leaders who would provide solutions to the country’s problems, saying power had returned to the electorate, who should use their Permanent Voters Cards to elect all APC candidates in the February and March general elections. Earlier in his address, the state party chairman, Alhaji Isa Sadiq Achida, expressed delight with the large turnout of supporters at the campaign venue. He said what he saw was a testimony that APC supporters in the state were very eager to reclaim their stolen mandate.  