Nigeria’s Invictus Team has applauded the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Lucky Irabor, for approving sports as a tool for recovery and reintegration of wounded Nigerian soldiers back into the society. The team leader, Ojey Bobby, gave the commendation after watching the wounded soldiers play a thrilling sitting volleyball match with Team FCT who are the West African champions at the MKO Abiola National Stadium, Abuja to commemorate the 2023 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration. Bobby said the game shows the power of sports in recovery, noting that the wounded members of the military team, including those whose legs were amputated in theatres of operations, now have a wider understanding of why they need to recover and adjust to their new lifestyle. “The game shows the power of sports in recovery, through this, we have a wider understanding of what our veterans go through and why they need to recover and adjust to a new lifestyle. “Invictus Game is a foundation that caters for wounded servicemen all over the world. Nigeria is the first West African country and 25th in the world to join the community.  We thank the Chief of Defence Staff who gave approval for these men to use sports for recovery. “Going forward, there are many games CDS has agreed for these men in terms of opening up sports activities for their recovery which is a great omen for them and there is a renewed vigor in their life. “Germany is hosting the next Invictus game in Düsseldorf from September 9-16, 2023 and we hope to participate,” he said. Speaking in the same vein, coach for Invictus Nigeria, Cheris Agoawuike praised the team for the performance despite losing 3-1 in three sets to Team FCT. “It was a wonderful performance because they are just a few days old and they played a West African champion. Sports is a tool for rehabilitation, integration and for them to be reabsorbed into the society,” Agoawuike said. The Invictus Games, founded by Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex is an international multi-sport event first held in 2014, for wounded, injured and sick servicemen and women, both serving and veterans.