There has been confusion in Ebonyi State following the death of an Ebubeagu operative, one Ajasm Aja, who was said to have been shot dead by his colleague over N1000. I gathered that the late Aja and his assailant were part of the Ebubeagu team drafted to Isu community, in the  Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, to provide security at the All Progressives Congress governorship rally in the area, on Saturday. It was gathered that an altercation ensued between the deceased and his colleague over an amount of money, which each, was to get a N1000. As the altercation raged, it was said that Aja rushed for his Pump Action riffle for an aim; but his opponent swiftly pulled his pistol, shot him in the head and he died on the spot. A community source, who pleaded anonymity said, “Today, Saturday 28th January 2023, the APC had their rally at Isu, the council headquarters of Onicha LGA. “At the close of the event, the Ebubeagu members and G-24 group members loyal to the Onicha LGA chairman – Mr Chidiebere Uzor (aka Obosi-Aku), were asked to collect back the Party’s flag in readiness for other day’s event. “In the process of doing so, one of the Ebubeagu members and a leader in the G-24 group, popularly known as Ajasm Aja, who was recently sworn-in as supervisory councillor for Health in the Onicha council area, had an altercation with a co- member. “As the duo engaged in war of words, Mr Aja pulled his Pump-Action rifle and aimed to shoot at the other colleague. In swift response, the colleague was quicker in action, pulled a pistol and shot him on the forehead. He fell flat immediately and died on the spot.” Reacting to the development, the commander of the outfit in the state, Mr. Friday Nnana-Ujor,  said the attacker wasn’t an operative of the security outfit, revealing that the assailant was a suspected gunman, who also wielded Pump Action, like his own men. He said, “No. it was not an Ebubeagu person that shot him. “That incidence was stage-managed; it was people that packed behind a Sienna bus that killed him. The person that did that was sent to do so. People are thinking that it was an Ebubeagu personnel that killed the person, but it is not true. “It’s because the gun they used in killing the person was Pump Action. No Ebubeagu person goes to the rally ground with arms. We had a meeting and made that decision. “We are currently investigating the matter and very soon we will arrest the culprit and call journalists to hear from him. I don’t want people to think that it’s politics. Just exercise some patience.”