The Action Democratic Party (ADP) gubernatorial candidate in Kaduna State, Hon Sani Mahmood Sha’aban has said that if elected governor of the state in the March election, he would do all within his powers to restore the lost glory of the state. He also said that his leadership would bring about human capital development and right all the wrongs of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Hon Sha’aban, who is challenging the APC at the Supreme Court over the conduct of the state gubernatorial primary, in which he contested and came second after Sen Uba Sani, said there were no ward congresses that produced the candidates of the party in the state. The governorship contender said, ADP is the fastest growing party in Kaduna State and will sweep the guber poll in March, adding that ADP is the masses party with the aim of ensuring human and infrastructural development, tackling insecurity and poverty, boosting education, health and developing agriculture, among others. Speaking on what qualified him as an APC governorship aspirant to contest the same 2023 gubernatorial polls under the ADP, Sha’aban said the 2022 Electoral Act as amended stated that, “if there is a judgment in a court, an aspirant can move to another party and contest. So, Sani Sha’aban found himself in the warm embrace of ADP. INEC headquarters released the list of candidates without ADP being included. Having realised the mistake, INEC wrote to ADP to present candidates across board. So, Sani Sha’aban had the opportunity of presenting candidates for Senate, Reps and state assembly.  “It’s my hope and desire to actualise my dream of being the governor of Kaduna State. Kaduna state is the center point of Northern politics, seat of the regional government, centre of learning. My aspiration to be governor dates back to when I was in the House of Representatives as chairman of the pension committee. The bill was passed and everything done for the pension scheme bill to be signed by then President Obasanjo. People commended us, they said we shouldn’t rest the zeal, that we should come and satisfy the yearnings of our people.”