 In an unrelenting onslaught against criminal elements and hoodlums, the Kaduna State Police Command said it has recorded another major breakthrough as its operatives attached to Rigachikun Division on Saturday, January 14, 2023 neutralised one bandit with others escaping with bullet wounds. The Command said at about 0100hours on the Saturday, it received a distress call that bandits have invaded the residence of one Umar Ibrahim at Amana Maimadachi village with the view to carrying out their nefarious activities. It revealed that upon receipt of the distress report, the crack operatives alongside other local security stakeholders swiftly mobilised and moved to the location where they engaged the bandits and thwarted their attempt to kidnap law-abiding citizens of the State. A statement issued by the spokesperson of the Police Command, DSP Muhammad Jalige, further said in the tactically executed operation, one of the bandits clad in military camouflage was neutralised, while others escaped with serious gunshot injuries. “A serviceable AK47 rifle loaded with four rounds of live ammunition was recovered from the neutralised bandit,” he added. In a related development, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) said operatives of the Command attached to Saminaka Division acted on credible information and launched a successful operation on Friday, January 13, 2023 at Warsa Piti area of Saminaka in Lere LGA of the State, where they arrested two bandits, namely; Dauda Yusuf and Sani Ibrahim. DSP Jalige said when a thorough search was conducted on the duo, a locally fabricated GPMG rifle with its six rounds of live ammunition and a Dane gun were equally recovered. “Upon preliminary investigation, the suspects confessed to the ownership of the weapons and are currently assisting the Police in investigation,” he said, adding that at the end of investigatelion, the suspects will be charged to court. Meanwhile, the PPRO noted that the Commissioner of Police, Kaduna State Command, CP Yekini A. Ayoku, while lauding the commitment of the operatives in these and other operations across the State, has ordered for rigorous patrol of the general area to arrest the fleeing wounded bandits and a thorough investigation of those arrested as well as checkmate their criminal activities. The Commissioner, he said, further assured members of the public of the Command’s strong resolve to do everything necessary for continual improvement in public security while enjoining all and sundry to always avail the Police and other security agencies of their support and cooperation.