 Presidential candidate of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, has advised Nigerians against voting other parties, particularly, the ruling APC and PDP into power in forthcoming general elections. Kwankwaso who made the call during the party’s Northeast presidential zonal rally in Bauchi said there was the need for Nigerians to vote out the APC and PDP that had misruled the country for over two decades. “Let me use this opportunity to tell the people of North East and Nigeria as a whole, that our party, the NNPP, has come to age now, we are in all the wards of this country”, he said. The candidate who urged party supporters to work for its successful outing in the general elections, said the PDP and APC that ruled Nigerians in the last 24 years had failed the country woefully. “They have failed the country in terms of security, in terms of economy, in terms of infrastructure and of course, even in terms of unity among Nigerians”, he said. Kwankwaso said the NNPP is the only answer to the myriad of challenges bedeviling the country as a result of leadership failure that had been witnessed within the period under review. He assured that if given the mantle of leadership in the country, his administration would make the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) result valid for four consecutive years. The NNPP presidential flagbearer who also assured that his administration would make all examinations such as WAEC, NECO, NABTEB, NBIAS, JAMB among others free, said all the party’s gubernatorial candidates in the zone had the qualifications and capacity to provide good governance for the people. He noted with concern that many students sit for JAMB examinations and come up with good grades, but for one reason or the other, they end up not being offered admission for faults that are not theirs. He stated, “These students and their parents are made to bear the financial burden to sit for the examinations the next year but when voted into power, we will make JAMB results valid for four years. “We will introduce a four-year moratorium for JAMB so that our children can use the same JAMB results to gain admission into our tertiary education institutions within this period”, saying application forms for admission and employment would be free if elected president.” 