 Immediate past Governor of Imo State, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha has condemned the assassination attempt on the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Ideato Federal Constituency, Barr. Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere. This is even as the party’s candidate for Imo West (Orlu) zone has berated the attackers for their actions. The two politicians spoke during separate solidarity visits to Ugochinyere in his country home at Akokwa, in the Ideato North council area of the state, following the attack of his convoy a fortnight ago by assailants. Ihedioha in his remarks described Ikenga as a beacon of light, and an enigma of truth, and called on him to remain resilient and resolute, focused and patriotic in his quest for a better Nigeria. According to Ihedioha, the attack on Ikenga was intended to silence, intimidate and dissuade him from fighting against plots to rig the election before the election, as well as exposing criminalities, corruption and misconduct at all levels of governance. Further, the former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives said the attackers were already intimidated and threatened by Ikenga’s courage, especially the audacity to confront the old order of electoral and leadership fraud in the country.   He commended Ikenga for courage against bad leadership saying  “When I look at Ikenga Ugochinyere, I feel encouraged that we have a person like him in Imo. We thank him for being the voice of the voiceless. We thank him for being bold and for always speaking truth to power. He is a true son of the soil and I urge him to keep up the good work”.   Further, Ihedioha called on Ikenga to stand strong and remain focused saying “trials and persecutions are part of the refining ingredients of life, and no matter the extent of tribulation, if God be for us, who can be against us”.   On his part, the candidate of PDP for Imo West Senatorial seat, Hon. Jones Onyereri, during his visit, expressed gratitude to God for preserving Ikenga during the attack.   He expressed confidence that both of them will be elected to give quality representation to their people and Imo state by extension.    Responding, Barr. Ikenga Ugochinyere expressed deep appreciation to Ihedioha and his entourage comprising PDP leaders and state officials, for their care, love and solidarity, saying he was overwhelmed by the honour of such a visit which he described as fatherly and epitomizes a true leader of men.   According to him, he and his team are committed to ensuring that the governorship seat returns to the rightful party, the PDP come 2023, adding that Ideato is for PDP.   Those who accompanied Ihedioha were Nze Law Biaduo, the PDP State organizing secretary; Charles Ezekwe, Former PDP chairman; Comr. GOC Nwadike, State Youth Leader; Collins Opurozor, State Publicity Secretary; Hon Martin Ejiogu, the PDP Deputy Chairman amongst others.