Great Nigeria Insurance (GNI) Plc has promised to continue to pay genuine claims to its policyholders that suffered insured risks. The managing director/CEO of the company, Mrs. Cecilia O. Osipitan, who gave assurance at the staff village meeting and thanksgiving held at the company’s head office in Ikoyi, Lagos recently, Corroborating the company’s boss promise, executive director of the firm, Mrs. Roselyn Ulaeto,  mentioned that, her underwriting firm is devoted to paying genuine claims. According to her, “the viability of any underwriting firm is evident in its prompt settlement of claims. We are committed to that in every ramification.” While assuring total commitment of the workforce to the organisation’s teeming customers in the most professional manner to make the Great Nigeria Insurance Plc brand, a preferred choice for patronage amongst the comity of insurance companies in the country. Earlier, Mrs. Osipitan has assured all category of its policyholders, home and abroad, individuals or corporate organisations, that 2023 will be a rewarding year for them. While urging  staff and other senior management officers  to double up their efforts at ensuring that customers are kept satisfied at every touchpoint with the GNI Plc brand in the new year and beyond, she added that, “we owe our customers the obligation to serve them more efficiently so that they can keep coming back as we are in business because of them.” She appreciated customers for their unflinching loyalty throughout the year 2022 despite the crunching economic challenges, assuring customers of the company’s renewed vigour and greater capacity to add value to them in 2023. The company, she stressed, will continually do all within its power to ensure that the staff are constantly exposed to the best of human capacity development training both within and abroad with a view to expanding the professional horizon of the workforce and ultimately, engender quality and better service delivery to the customers.