A group, Democratic Leadership (DL) has said the Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party (LP) Peter Obi will score 24 per cent in over 24 states if the 2023 general election will be free and fair. The group noted that Peter Obi is the most democratic, credible leader to lead Nigeria to regain its respect amongst the comity of nations. Speaking during a press conference yesterday in Abuja with the theme: “State of Nation and the 2023 General Elections’, president, Democratic Leadership, Ray Onwuelo, said that Nigeria is at a crossroads and needs Nigerians to come out in mass to get their Permanent Voters Cards, PVCs, and vote for a credible candidate. He said, “Two of the candidates are likely to get the requisite 25 per cent of the votes cast in 24 or more states and the FCT with the candidate of Labour Party (LP), Mr Peter Obi securing the widest and largest number of votes in a fair presidential election. I am not unaware that it will be unpleasant to hear this but that is the true situation on the ground across the country with a small margin of error. “Peter Obi by this implication is the best for Democratic Leadership from all our assessments and he’s totally different from others. I think Peter Obi by this implication is the best for Democratic Leadership from all our assessments and he’s totally different from others. He described the developmental process of Nigeria as slow, advising Nigerians to take the bull by its horn during the election and ensure the right things are done, adding that with the right leadership, Nigeria was bound for Uhuru. He said: “The Nigeria Nation is indeed at a crossroads and never before have we had it so colourful. Every Nigerian at home and abroad feels it so bad one way or another. “But for most of us, it does seem that it is very little we can do to improve things. This is because the path to the much-needed transformation is riddled with immense difficulties with near impossibilities some will say. “We have been through different developmental processes but have generally been so slow and sometimes retrogressive. At 62 years we have passed the middle ages in any life, including that of any independent nation.” Incidentally amid these blessings, he said there is abject poverty, suffering, and hardship in the land. “There is loss of hope and those who could migrate are doing so in droves. The situation has not been different since soon after the excitement of independence. “Sadly it has progressively worsened. Developmental indices have plummeted. How did we get this far and why? “The general election of 2023 gives us another opportunity to adjust the trajectory. For the purpose of this conference, three frontline political parties, APC, PDP, and LP have been painstakingly considered by the group known as Democratic Leadership.” He said each of the presidential candidates has areas of strength and weakness, intertwined with the facts beholding of themselves and the nation. He said their various manifestos and proposed contracts with Nigerians are now known to them. “Of Importance are factors related to the Candidates and the Nation. Amongst the former are; credibility, health, and previous performance. nation variables include; unity, security, corruption, reforms, and economy,” he sad He said that with the candidacy of Peter Obi, the Democratic Leadership, would intensify its campaign in 11 northern states towards actualisation of a landslide victory at the Presidential. 