 The Association of Entertainment Practitioners of Nigeria says it is in full backing of their member and Nollywood star, Empress Njamah over alleged leaked video online, saying there is nothing to worry over the video. The body says the video does not in any way reduce the enviable personality of Njamah whom it says has distinguished herself in the industry both in character and professional prowess, insisting that her image in not in any way at stake as she did not indulge in any scandalous affair. Njamah’s video had surfaced online allegedly released by her estranged fiancé, simply identified as Josh. It has attracted divergent reactions with several internet users calling for the arrest and prosecution of Josh for criminal blackmail against the actress. She was said to have called off their engagement, a move that didn’t go well with Josh who in reaction threatened to release the videos. But in reaction to the development, the president of the Association of Entertainment Practitioners, Agility Onwurah in a statement said the video is a regrettable height undesirable elements can desperately go in proving a point where none exists, wondering what the suspect seeks to achieve with his demonstration of frustration and low life. He said Mr Josh had intended to malign and cause hate and disaffection in the minds of right-thinking members of the public against the fine actress but ended up exposing his low life and never-do-well spirit inhibiting in him. “This is not the first time our people are coming encounter with such scenario. In fact is is a recurrent decimal that induces little or no euphoria. “What is however worrisome is how a man who was preparing for marriage, a man who claims to have attained maturity and ready to house a wife and father children could stoop so low and debase himself even lower than could ever be imagined that a right thinking person can go.  “What is more cheering to our great association and indeed Nigerians is that they understand the character of Empress Njamah who has consistently remain a model of decency and sound character even right from her teenage age. Never has she been associated with any scandal of any form.  “Whatever thing that may have transpired between she and the fellow who claimed to have loved her was just an honest act of trust which does not in any way impede on her morals”, he said.  Mr. Onwurah vowed that the association will take every legal action to get Josh arrested and have him face the full wrath of the law for such a malicious blackmail.  He also called on online media practitioners to cooperate with the association and ensure that its circulation is halt henceforth.  Mr. Onwurah reiterated the readiness of the association to continue to protect the image of its members against desperate blackmailers whose aim it to undermine years of hard work and efforts to build a flourishing career.   