Presently, we live in a digital era where the world has become a global village and everyone needs to be connected to stay informed about what is happening in their immediate environment and the world at large. To this end, purchasing and having a data plan becomes inevitable. According to a 2021 report from Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC), Nigerians consume an excess of 80,000 terabytes of data every month. Hence, a data reseller is an individual who purchases data in bulk from VTU platforms and telecommunication companies at a relatively cheap price and then resells it to customers at his or her convenient rate.  Data Reselling Data reselling is a business of buying (by individuals or companies) data in large scales directly from telecommunication companies and then reselling such data to end-users in smaller quantities, thereby, earning some profits. This business entails that you buy data directly from telecommunications companies, such as; Airtel, 9Mobile, Glo and MTN at a relatively cheaper prices. This gives you opportunities to make lots of profit from it when you are reselling to the end users.  Accessories For the Business As long as you have internet access, you are on your path to starting the data business. Other accessories needed include; PC/ Smartphone, your payment option (ATM Card/Mobile Banking) and Data Reselling Pack. Guides To  Data Bundle Reselling  How To Fund Your Wallet You can fund your wallet using any of the payment means below. Online Payment with your ATM card details via Paystack Payment Gateway or Bank Transfer/Deposit payment. STEP 1: Log In to your account(Create an account if you haven’t) STEP 2: Click on the toggle menu at the Top Left corner. STEP 3: Click on “Fund Wallet”. STEP 4: Select your Payment Method and fill in the necessary details.  How To Purchase/Vend Data STEP 1: Fund your wallet(If your balance is not sufficient enough) STEP 2: Go to the Toggle Menu and select “Buy Data”. STEP 3: Select Network Type and fill the data order form, then Submit. You can know if your data has been sent by scrolling down to the transaction page where it will either be marked as Successful or Declined. The number you sent data to will also receive a message.  Initial Capital With  about N50,000, you can start this business.  Profitability Profit is expected to double your initial capital as long as you are receiving high patronage 