 Former Delta State House of Assembly aspirant for Warri South-West Constituency on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Engr. Jude Akpodubakaye has explained why he tagged the maiden edition of his inter-community soccer cup tournament after the Deputy Senate President and governorship candidate of the APC, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. Briefing newsmen shortly after hosting the event tagged: “Agege-Jude Football Empowerment Tournament”, Engr Akpodubakaye  said “The reason I tagged my soccer event, “Agege-Jude Football Empowerment Tournament Cup”, is that though we have a People Democratic Party (PDP) Senator, representing Delta South  Senatorial District in the person of Sen. James Manager, but as you can see, there is no government’s presence in Isaba kingdom after all years in the Senate, but see what Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, his fellow Senator from Delta Central Senatorial District has done for his own people. “That was what actually motivated me to name this soccer tournament after Omo-Agege because he has become my role model in politics. Because the kind of things he is doing are the kind of things I love to do and I want to do. “One day, by the special grace of God, either by appointment or being elected into a public office in government, I will do things to positively impact lives. Though I have not been opportuned to occupy any public position in government, because God is still blessing me one way or the other, I deemed it fit to lay a foundation to affect lives in my community and local government area in general.  “I have been affecting lives even before now and I will continue to affect more lives positively with what God has blessed with me just as Sen. Omo-Agege, the current Deputy Senate President and our incoming governor, who actually motivated me by his good performance is doing.  “The sole purpose of organising this football competition is to bring peace among Isaba, Ogbe-Ijoh, Gbaramatu and Itsekiri kingdoms which make up the Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State.  “We are also using this event to particularly make the people of Isaba kingdom happy and hopeful of more dividends of democracy from the All Progressives Congress, when our governorship candidate, the Deputy Senate President, Omo-Agege eventually becomes the executive governor of Delta State, by the grace of God in few weeks from now. 