Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has promised to make the people of Ekiti State and indeed all Nigerians happy if elected president in the February 25 election. He also vowed to reconstruct Ado-Akure Road and harness the human capital resources of the Ekiti people to develop the state and the country. Atiku spoke yesterday in Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital at the PDP mega presidential rally held at the Ekiti Parapo Pavilion. He said, “What I saw today almost made me shed tears. Before we came to Ekiti, they said we won’t see anybody to receive or identify with us today but you surprised us. “To stop you from coming to this event, they created artificial scarcity of fuel and made transporters withdraw their services from the road but you broke the challenges to be here enmasse. “I can assure you that, if you vote PDP to power on February 25, we will continue to always make you happy everyday as you have made us happy. “We will fix the dilapidated Ado-Akure Road and others that linked the state to other states. “Ekiti is the centre of intellectual discourse in the country, which is your God given resources and PDP will make use of this for human capital development. Funds will be made available to youths and women for business enterprise. “So, vote for PDP and protect your votes on the day of election. Thanks for your love and support for me and the PDP.” Also at the rally, Atiku’s running Governor Ifeanyi Okowa thanked PDP leadership and supporters in the state for standing strong in the face of opposition. “The disunity in Nigeria today is not the Nigeria of our dreams, industries are packing. PDP as a party firmly rooted in all states of the federation will turn the country around for better for the youths to have hope for the future,” he said. The party’s national chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu said the people have shown their commitment to the restructuring of the country by coming for the rally. “The enemies within and without may stop you from moving today but they can’t stop you from voting for PDP that will rescue Ekiti and Nigeria from tyranny,” he said. Ayu presented the flag of the party to Senator Biodun Olujimi who is seeking to represent Ekiti South senatorial district at the Senate and the PDP candidate for Ekiti South federal constituency I, Mr. Henrich Akomolafe. However, former governor of the state, Mr Ayodele Fayose and 27 candidates of the party for the general election shunned the rally. The director-general of the PDP PCC, Governor Aminu Tambuwal and his Akwa Ibom State counterpart, Udom Emmanuel said the PDP was about rescuing the country and for the freedom of its people. “The freedom of movement and association of the people is guaranteed. You must continue on this momentum and deliver the state to the PDP,” Tambuwal said. Udom said, ‘’Our message is for the youth to look forward to a better future. PDP blueprint is for human capacity development, constructing Ado -Akure Road and industrialising the state. This is a God’s movement no one can stop.” Other PDP leaders at the event are former vice president Namadi Sambo and Dino Melaye among others. 