Federal government has declared its support for the recent United States (US) visa ban on some Nigerians who were adjudged to have undermined the nation’s democracy. The government said serious sanctions should be meted on those who pose any sort of threat to the nation’s democracy. “Let me be clear: whatever action is taken against anyone who undermines this democracy that has been watered by the blood of many of our patriots is right and justified,” the minister of information and culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed made the declaration yesterday at the 20th edition of the PMB Administration Scorecard Series (2015-2023) in Abuja. LEADERSHIP had reported that the US government announced visa restriction on Nigerians who undermined the country’s democracy, a ban it said was not targeted at the Nigerian people or the government but specific individuals. The US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, made the announcement last week in a statement but failed to mention the names of the affected people. The minister bragged that no administration since Nigeria’s return to democratic rule in 1999 has shown more fidelity to the democratic process than the current administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari. Mohammed said, “Let those who undermine our democracy be sanctioned, and let them carry their own cross. As a government, we have no reason to worry because our hands are clean!” He also disclosed that the current administration is creating the template on a smooth transition of power that will guide future administrations. Minister of the Federal Capital Territory Muhammad Bello who presented the record of his achievements since his over seven years in office, took the audience through the various projects, including roads, bridges and Abuja Light Rail that were built under his supervision. Mallam Bello said the Abuja Light Rail will commence operation before May 29 when the current administration will leave office. He said the rail service was stopped from commencing operation because of COVID-19. He said many of the rail stations have been completed. The FCT minister claimed that Abuja has become one of the most secured cities in Nigeria under his watch. According to him, security has significantly improved in Abuja. But not many people would agree with him on some of the issues, especially on the issue of insecurity in Abuja. The city has witnessed much security breaches including the killing of some soldiers, car robbery popularly known as one chance and increased kidnapping for ransom. There is much insecurity in the satellite areas of Abuja due to the influx of people mostly from Northern Nigeria because of heightened terrorism in the region. The minister said the current administration which came into office in Nigeria on May 29, 2015 has made tremendous impact on the socio-economic and political development in the 8000sqkm of land in the Federal Capital Territory. “The FCT administration under my humble leadership has recorded milestones in the areas of infrastructure, education, health, security, agriculture, economy and social-Interventions, amongst others,” the minister said.