Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has said the state would repeat the 1993 presidential election feat when it supported a southern candidate and rejected its own son. He made the statement, during a campaign tour with the All Progressives Party (APC) candidates vying for different positions for the upcoming general elections, as he visited the district head of Kibiya, Sunusi Abubakar Ila, after holding a campaign rally and consultations in Rano and Bunkure. He said, “That showed the political maturity and dexterity of Kano citizens. We voted for Chief MKO Abiola of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and rejected Bashir Othman Tofa of the National Republican Convention (NRC). This is because we all believed in national integration and competence.” Reminding Nigerians that the APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, supported northerners on different occasions to clinch the presidency, the governor recalled that “Tinubu was an instrument behind making Atiku Abubakar to become the presidential candidate of Action Congress (AC). He also provided another platform for Nuhu Ribadu to contest for the presidency under the platform of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN).”  Explaining further that, as rotational as it is, the presidential contest in the country, provides that power rotates from North to South and vice versa.  Therefore, according to him, “Asiwaju Tinubu worked very hard to maintain the equation. Hence, his support for northern presidential candidates in the past. One good thing deserves another. We have no other option now, than to support his candidature.”  Governor Ganduje emphasized that Tinubu, the only deserving and most competent presidential candidate in the upcoming election, is being supported by the North because of his (Tinubu) firm belief in nation building, all-encompassing pedigree, firm belief in human and national development among other factors.  He introduced all the candidates vying for the positions of senator, membership of House of Representatives and State Assembly and gubernatorial and deputy gubernatorial positions.