Outstanding Gospel Artistes such as Solomon Lange Samsong Mercy Chinwo, media practitioners and filmmakers with tremendous impact last year in Nigerian Entertainment industry, will be well recognized, celebrated and honoured with their deserved Cave Gospel Awards at the maiden edition of classic award night on February 11th, at MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos. According to the organizers, Flame Entertainment Hub told E-train, the award was birthed not only to honour Creative Gospel industry, but also to set new standards for greater exploits for Gospel music in the entertainment industry. “ It is no news that every year Awards ceremonies are held to recognize and appreciate artiste for the hard work, but among these awards none have been able to really recognize the efforts of Nigerian Gospel artistes and their excellent contributions”, said Sandra Odafin, Project Manager of Cave Awards. She further explained, that, “Amazing talents abound in the Gospel Music industry, and millions are genuinely interested in songs by these artiste. Artiste like Sinach, Nathaniel Bassey, Eben, Frank Edwards, Mike Abdual, Tope Alabi, Mercy Chinwo, Dunsin Oyekan, Chioma Jesus, Moses Bliss, Tim Godfrey, Ada Ehi etc. This is evident on their music streams on YouTube, with Sinach having over 690 million views on her songs, following by Ada Ehi with 359 million views, Nathaniel Bassey with 140 million views to mention but a few, but they are not well honoured by the Music industry”, she lamented “To this end Worship Flame Entertainment Hub is please to introduce to you Cave AAwards.It is an Awards designed to honor the outstanding achievements and excellence in Gospel Music Industry. The award would be recognizing and hosting over 100 gospel artistes, happening live on the 11th day of February, 2023 at Shell Hall, Muson Centre”, Sandra emphatically posited. “We have collaborated with the most renowned entertainment organizations and media houses to bring to you the best Award ceremony with premium live performances, Music, dance, comedy and Award”, she assured. Leadership learnt that the award commenced last year with open nominations of artistes for the award by general public. As a result, waves making artistes such as Mercy Chinwo, Dunsin Oyekan, Nathaniel Bassey, and others bagged multiple awards. After the nomination, the open public voting instantly. Now the voting has ended according to the organizers. They now ready to crown the awardees at the epochal event which promises to be memorable. 