BY ABIODUN SIVOWAKU, Lagos Tuoyo Dudu is the founder of Tudu Business Services, a parent company to Tudu Energy and Tudu Feeds. Tudu Business Services is a company that invests in businesses that boost human capital development and ensure environmental protection. Tudu Energy is also on a mission to light up Africa through the manufacturing of solar systems used to power community healthcare centre Schools, Small and Medium Enterprises(SMEs), Households, among others.  Business Incorporation On relocating to Nigeria in 2017, Tuoyo decided to do something that will improve the lives of his people. “For me, it was not really about making money but about service to my country and that was why I registered Tudu Business Services and set up Tudu Energy as a subsidiary to focus on manufacturing next-generation clean energy solutions,” he said.  Motivation According to Tuoyo, “I loves my country very much, which is why I am doing this. Tudu Energy solutions improves everything from education to healthcare and very importantly, improve the environment. We bring happiness, peace of mind, and a better standard of living into the lives of our users. By producing locally in Nigeria, we are building a manufacturing base for the next generation and creating lots of jobs for unemployed youths.  Business Lucrativity The business, he noted, is lucrative because there is a growing demand for sustainable affordable energy and with the effects of climate change, he added that the demand is going to increase. “I believe that, if you are excellent at what you do, you will always do very well and by God’s grace we are doing very well,” he stressed.  Business Challenges Getting the right staff who possess these attributes and have the skills has been a challenge, however, we are looking into better technical partnerships to help us out. Another challenge is bad infrastructure in the country, such as, deplorable bad roads and uncompleted jetties. To him, “we service communities that are off-grid and as such travel to the most remote parts of Nigeria by road and by water. It is difficult and expensive to reach many off-grid communities which are almost cut off by bad infrastructure.”  Lessons For Upcoming Entrepreneurs My advice for upcoming entrepreneurs is to believe in themselves and to put God first. “When you believe in yourself, you will be able to birth and grow your vision without needing approval from anybody because many people will not agree with you, support you or believe in you when you start your journey, but will eventually come along when success materialises.  Biography Tuoyo Dudu is the founder and CEO of Tudu Energy. Born in Lagos, Nigeria on March 16, Tuoyo attended Corona Primary School, Gbagada, Lagos State and Adesoye College, Offa, Kwara State for his secondary school education. He holds a BBE in Financial Economics from Brock University, Ontario, Canada. While overseeing the affairs of Tudu Energy, his company has built a brand reputation for manufacturing quality solar systems to solve Nigeria’s overdependence on imported, expensive, and substandard products as this continue to be a major concern fueling a mistrust for solar products. Tuoyo, through his foundation, is building solar internet schools in off-grid communities for poor children to access computer education and digital skills training. In recognition of his amazing work over the past few years, he was honoured with the Niger Delta Future Fest Prize Award for Young Person in Energy in August 2022, and also Top10 Magazine’s Young Business Leader of the Year in December 2022. He enjoys reading, exercising, traveling, and spending quality time with his family. 