The Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi, has attacked the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, over the allegation that he is stingy to have saved money instead of developing Anambra when he was the governor. Obi said he is more credible as he and his running mate, Senator Ahmed Datti have traceable backgrounds, unlike other presidential candidates whose backgrounds are not known to the people they seek to lead. In a subtle reference to the academic background of his APC’s counterpart, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the LP presidential candidate said his records and that of his running mate, are not shrouded in mystery. Tinubu had during a rally in Akure, taken a swipe at Obi, describing him as an “emergency warehouse economist.” Tinubu who said Obi has nothing to be proud of as governor of Anambra state for 8 years, noted that “Obi has a chance to show up a progressive when he was a governor of Anambra state, all he could do was to boast that he save money when he was the Governor of Anambra state. Obi has nothing to be proud of instead he made the people of Anambra cry and he claimed to be the party labour leader. My people, you cannot entrust your future and that of our nation to Atiku and Obi. What has Atiku brought to Nigeria?” However, Obi at a rally in Akure, the Ondo State capital, threw a jab at Tinubu, saying, “They said that I am stingy, I am stingy that is why I was able to keep the money for my state when I was a governor. Unlike some people, I and my vice presidential candidate are credible and we are people of traceable background. “I am the only Governor that left good money in office as far as the history of Anambra State is concerned. “They said that I’m stingy, we want stingy people now so that we can keep the money for the development of the country. We want to make sure we use your money to transform the country. “This election that is coming now, don’t vote for anybody because of the tribe but vote for someone that will move the country forward.’’ Earlier, the LP national chairman, Barrister Julius Abure, noted that the party was not new to the people. 