 A former governor of Enugu State and Senator representing Enugu East in the Senate, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, has reacted to his suspension by the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over anti-party activities, saying the development came to him as a rude shock and huge surprise. He, however, assured his constituents and Nigerians alike that his political career was alive and unshaken. The former Enugu State governor stated this while reacting to the suspension slammed on him by the PDP National Working Committee (NWC). Recall that the national publicity secretary of PDP, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, had late Friday released a statement announcing the suspension of Senator Nnamani alongside Chief Chris Ogbu (Imo State) “with effect from today, Friday, January 20, 2023, over allegations of anti-party activities.” LEADERSHIP reports that Nnamani has been openly campaigning for the rival All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, whom he described as a friend. The party also suspended some of its members in Ekiti State who are National Assembly candidates in the forthcoming elections, namely; Ayeni Funso (Ekiti North); Ajijola Lateef Oladimeji (Ekiti Central);
Emiola Adenike Jennifer (Ekiti South II); Ajayi Babatunde Samuel (Ekiti North II); Olayinka James Olalere (Ekiti Central); Akerele Oluyinka (Ekiti North I), and Fayose Oluwajomiloju John (Ekiti Central I). But, Nnamani in a statement said, “I was never at anytime notified of any petition or complaint against me or informed of the grounds that formed the decision of the NWC of the PDP to suspend me from the party . “I was not also invited to any meeting , proceeding or hearing of the NWC of the party where my supposed offence (s) was/were discussed. I was therefore, not afforded the opportunity to make representations on my behalf at any meeting where the proposal and decision to suspend me from the party was made . “My right to fair hearing was consequently violated against the clear provisions of the constitution of the party , especially in disciplinary proceedings. More importantly, the superior constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria. “I therefore, appeal to all of you to remain calm and law abiding, while we continue our campaign to a hopefully victorious conclusion.” Senator Nnamani thanked his constituents, the Ebeano political family, the people of Enugu State and Nigerians for the overwhelming support and solidarity . He added: “I’m overwhelmed by the outpouring of love and solidarity to me across the length and breadth of Nigeria and even across the political divide since the suspension was announced. “I’m grateful. It is reassuring that my political career is alive. It is not threatened. We are going into the forthcoming elections very confident. We will win at all the levels of elections in Enugu state. Our people knows where we are; Ebeano.” Senator Nnamani assured that he will continue to provide the needed leadership that will facilitate the delivery of dividends of democracy to the people. He expressed appreciation to his constituents especially the Ebeano political family for the trust and confidence reposed in him over the years, saying “it spurs me to do more. I will not let you down.”