Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has re-arrested the former registrar of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Adedibu Ojerinde. The ICPC said Prof. Ojerinde’s re-arrest in Abuja on Thursday followed a warrant issued by the Federal High Court, Abuja. ICPC spokesperson, Azuka Ogugua said Ojerinde is expected to face a team of investigators over new evidence uncovered in relation to his ongoing trial for diversion of funds while he was a public officer. ICPC operatives uncovered two accounts opened in the names of Trillium Learning Centre Ltd and Sapati International Schools Ltd into which funds were diverted using fictitious names of students. The ICPC had on the 12th December, 2022, invited the former JAMB registrar for questioning over the new evidence but he wrote through his solicitor requesting for 14 days grace to enable him honour the invitation. Ojerinde, however, refused to honour the invitation as undertaken by his counsel after the expiration of the 14 days grace on 27th December, 2022. Ogugua also said in the course of its ongoing investigation, the ICPC unearthed new evidence that suggests that Ojerinde is the sole signatory to various bank accounts operated in the name of Trillium Learning Centre Ltd and Sapati International School Ltd. Ojerinde reportedly operated those accounts using false identities and forged documents in the names of Joshua Olakulehin Olaniran and Akanbi Lamidi respectively. He also reportedly used another false identity, Adeniyi Banji, to operate a separate account in the name of Standout Institutes Ltd. The ICPC has recovered the cheque books of the companies’ accounts from Ojerinde, who has been taken into custody at the headquarters of the Commission. The commission may likely prosecute the former registrar before a court of competent jurisdiction for offences bothering on forgery of documents, stolen identity, money laundering and concealment of gratification if the new evidence is confirmed. Niger Delta Elders Fault EFCC’s Arrest Of Tompolo’s Director Traditional rulers and key stakeholders from the Niger Delta region have faulted the reasons given by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) for the arrest of executive director of operations and technical of the Tantita Security Services Nigeria Limited (TSSNL), Captain Warredi Enisuoh. He was arrested in Lagos State last week by the anti-graft commission. The spokesperson of the EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, had claimed that Enisuoh was arrested over an alleged case of money laundering involving the criminal dissipation of funds in an account held by him, which is the subject of its longstanding investigation. But the traditional rulers, elders, women and youths under the aegis of the Niger Delta Stakeholders Forum, in an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, faulted the claims of the EFCC. They urged Buhari to call the leadership of the EFCC to order and cease acts of illegality, but rather respect the rights of individuals and act within the bounds of the law. The members of the Forum, in the letter dated 26th January, 2023, signed by Dr. Akpan Essien, Chief Williams Erepatei, Barr. Adeleke S.Olubunmi, Engr. James Ipalibo and Dr. Mrs. Ejiro P. Obohvie, argued that the people of the region were shocked and disappointed by the bold face lies released as a press statement by Uwajeren.  “Uwajeren’s press release is a gambit, to change the narrative and to make the EFCC look like they are acting within the legality of the law, yes very-obvious lies built on quicksand that can’t stand rudimentary scrutiny. Let us for the benefit of the general public wholeheartedly address the brazen lies and concocted narrative raised by the EFCC spokesperson Uwajeren.  “First, Capt. Warredi Enisouh is not under investigation, he is in court with the EFCC, common sense and best investigative practices behoves that the EFCC must conclude its investigations before making arrest and prosecuting its case against suspects, in this very substantive matter before the court Inisouh is already under administrative and judicial bail respectively from the EFCC and the court.  “This move by Rotimi Oyedepo and the EFCC is sub judice, it is very undesirable, why is Barr. Rotimi Oyedepo and the EFCC are trying to prejudice the case,” it added.  They also called on the DSS to investigate the employment of Barr. Rotimi Oyedepo’s wife with the Nigerian Maritime Security Agency (NIMASA) and to impound Rotimi Oyedepo’ s phones, trace and investigate all calls and messages this last six months to and from.  “We thank the Presidency, the management of NNPCL, the Nigerian Army, the Department of State Security Services (DSS) for their continued and unconditional support to see that we eradicate this scourge and criminal activities of pipeline vandalism and oil theft.”