Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said the International Conference Centre (ICC) in Abuja will serve as the venue for the National Situation Room and Collation Centre for the 2023 general elections. Accordingly, the commission has established two committees for this purpose. First is the Collation Secretariat, where presidential results from the states will be collated. A statement made available to LEADERSHIP Friday yesterday in Abuja and signed by the national commissioner and chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said the exercise would be headed by the chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. Okoye said in exercising his constitutional responsibilities as the chief electoral commissioner of the federation and returning officer for the presidential election, a few technical staff will assist him. The statement reads in part: “The commission held its regular weekly meeting today, Thursday, 5th January, 2023, and deliberated on several issues, including the venue for the National Situation Room and Collation Centre for the 2023 general election. “As general elections approach, the commission establishes a National Situation Room and Collation Centre where the results of presidential elections are collated. Once again, the International Conference Centre (ICC) in Abuja will serve as the venue for this important exercise. “The second is the Situation Room and Collation Centre Committee, which shall be responsible for the preparation of the venue, seating arrangement, utilities and services, security, the accreditation of party agents, as well as the national and international observers, media, etc.” Okoye said the committee has the following membership: Mrs. May Agbamuche-Mbu, national commissioner – chairperson; Prof. Abdullahi Abdu Zuru, national commissioner – member; Barr. Festus Okoye, national commissioner – member; Director, Electoral Operations – member; director, ICT – member; and director, Planning and Monitoring – member. Others are director, Security – member; director, Election and Party Monitoring – Member, director, International Cooperation and Protocol – member, director, Research – member; director, Health Services – member, director, Estate, Works and Transport – member; chief technical adviser to the Chairman – member; special adviser to the chairman – member; chief press secretary to the Chairman – member and director, Commission Secretariat – member/secretary. Okoye added that the Situation Room and Collation Centre Committee was inaugurated by the Chairman of the Commission who charged it to commence work in earnest and to discharge its responsibilities diligently.