 The current lawmaker representing Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal Constituency and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2023 election, Victor Kolade Akinjo has insisted that Ilaje will not let go of the seat because it is the entitlement of his people. Akinjo who spoke through his director general, Jossy Ehinmore, was reacting to reports that his main opponent, All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate and former information commissioner,  Donald Ojogo, was campaigning that only a win for the APC would guarantee the governorship slot to come to Ilaje. Ehinmore said: “Ojogo and his campaign committee should go and look for other campaign tactics, and stop insulting the Ilaje nation by saying that Ilaje must forgo every of our entitlements to get governorship.” According to the PDP chieftain, Ojogo, who is a former information commissioner in Ondo state and his campaign team have been going all over Ilaje local government of the federal constituency, telling the constituents that governor Rotimi Akeredolu has said that they have to support and make sure Ojogo wins the house of representatives seat, if they want him to consider a successor from the Ilaje nation. Ehinmore urged the people of Ilaje to remember that no sitting governor of Ondo state has ever produced his successor from inception till date. According to him, “Pa Adekunle Ajasin did not produce Adefarati, Adefarati did not produce Agagu, Agagu did not produce Mimiko, and Mimiko did not Produce Akeredolu, therefore, Akeredolu too will not produce his successor. It must also be noted that these are governors who achieved far better than the present retrogressive leadership of Akeredolu, so who is fooling who?” He further added that it has been revealed that governor Akeredolu has signed a secret pact with his finance commissioner, Mr. Wale Akinterinwa, who is from Ile-oluji local government, to hand over power to him as his successor in office. “It is even more worrisome, that the present APC led government in Ondo state has nothing to show in Ilaje, since they came in to power, rather, they have squandered the money expected to get to the local government through OSOPADEC.” he said. “I challenge Ojogo and his campaign team to name any OSOPADEC project instituted under the leadership of the present state government in Ilaje local government. He also berated the state governor for deliberately excluding Ilaje indigenes, who showed interest in the appointment of the NDDC executive director to favour his Owo brother.