As the general election inches closer, a support group, Igbo Kwenu for Asiwaju-Shettima, has assured that the presidential candidate of the All progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, would enjoy the support of the South East geopolitical zone of the country in the presidential poll.
President of the group, Amb. Ginika Tor, said the massive turnout of the voters during the APC women presidential campaign rally held in Owerri, Imo State, speaks volume of the reality on ground. Tor who is also a federal commissioner of the Federal Character Commission (FCC) faulted sceptics at the federal level who she said were hoping that the turnout at the rally will not be encouraging, noting that to their amazement, Imo State women came out in their large numbers to the rally. Speaking with journalists in Abuja, she said she is not surprised at the huge turnout and excitement of the women because the woman behind the successful and impressive outing is Barr Chioma Hope Uzodinma, first lady of Imo State, who she described as a woman with the heart of gold and a leader to reckon with. “The governor’s wife played a vital role in organizing the rally which recorded a huge success. She was at the venue from start to finish, ensuring that committees were working accordingly, with the support of the Local organizing committee headed by the Imo State commissioner for Women Affairs, Hon Nkechinyere Ugwu.” Also, the national secretary of OPI, Chief Emma Ogbonna, who was present at the Imo rally, reaffirmed his position on the forthcoming election that women are the most vital tool in election victory because once they give their words they keep to them. He further stated that he will continue to support their leader, Ambassador Tor, and where she directs them to go, they will go, adding that record has it that she is a strong supporter of Tinubu –Shettima presidential ticket. On her part, Onyanta Nkiru, the group’s SouthEast coordinator, who also doubles as the SSA to the federal commissioner, said Tinubu is a credible man who has capacity, and is a detribalised Nigerian. She said Ginika Tor has chosen the right part and she is with her on it. The state coordinator, Ijeoma Joy Nwagbara, said her president is like a palm tree just like Tinubu, adding that the palm tree is very productive, with lots of diversification and so is Tinubu. Also, Jennifer Ndubuisi applauded the governor of the state and the first lady of Imo State who she described as Nne Ora, she said the outcome of the Women presidential campaign rally in SouthEast has proven that the women of the zone are ready to vote Asiwaju in the forthcoming election. The Igbo Kwenu for Asiwaju-Shettima group which was birthed as a brain child of Omaluegwuoku Progressive Initiative toured the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria on a pre-campaign town-hall meeting which kicked off at Enugu for the South East region to Lagos, Cross-Rivers, Kano, Yobe States before holding its grand-finale at Keffi, Nassarawa State.