 Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Sokoto State chapter, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to avoid a repeat of the 1984 experience when Nigerians were made to face undue pressure over monetary policy. The party’s state chairman, Hon  Bello Aliyu Goronyo made the call in a statement by the party’s spokesperson, Hassan Sahabi Sanyinnawal and made available to newsmen, yesterday. According to Goronyo, “Nigerians suffered during the military regime of Buhari when he ordered the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to effect change of the country’s currency.” “In 1984 when President Muhammadu Buhari was military Head of State, he made Nigerians to suffer unduly as a result of his monetary policy. They not only suffered in the process of changing their hard-earned money to the new notes but also recorded losses. “Till date, many of those Nigerians have not recovered from the losses and many died as a result of the tense situation they found themselves,” he said. Goronyo opined that in 1984 when he made the dictatorial order, Buhari was in the military. “Mr President should know that this is not a military regime. This is a democracy and the people elected him to power. “In democracy, Mr President should tread with caution and listen to the people that elected him,” he said. Goronyo further said that Buhari should listen to the calls by Sultan Sa’ad Abubakar, the leadership of the National Assembly (NASS), and other Nigerians by ordering the CBN to extend the deadline. “We are aware that His Eminence, Sultan Sa’ad Abubakar, the Senate, and the House of Representatives have made calls to the CBN to consider extending the deadline for Nigerians to be able to get the new notes. “These calls are legitimate, considering the hardship that citizens were already experiencing as a result of unacceptability of old notes by traders, and POS operators. “We advise Mr President to, as a matter of urgency, order the CBN to extend the January 31st deadline to ease the suffering of Nigerians,” he said.  