 The governorship candidate of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Engr. Josiah Wukari Wasa has pledged to restore unity among the people of the state if elected. Wasa, while speaking with journalists in Jalingo, Taraba State capital said the state has lost its glory, unity and peace which was a major platform for development among the tribes/ethics across the 16 local government areas. The PRP governorship candidate said the All Progressive Congress (APC) at the national level and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state have failed to unify the people. He added that he is a unifier who will restore the lost dignity. “The good people of Taraba State in particular and Nigerians at large should embark on earnest introspection in order to understand the true situation of Taraba State and plead for God’s mercy and blessings as they prepare for government transition in 2023.” He continued, “The pains Nigerians are going through especially in Taraba State in the hands of the present Administrations of APC and PDP in the state is as a result of bad leadership but 2023 has present hope for us to choose leaders with quality representation. “I want to use this opportunity to encourage Tarabans to vote for the Presidential candidate of our great party and humble myself as well as our other candidates in the 2023 general elections. Am assuring you that a vote for PRP Presidential and Governorship Candidates as well as other candidates of the party is a vote for a better Nigeria and a new Taraba. “By the special grace of God, we will bring total reformation in the education, health and Agricultural sector in the country and Taraba State in particular, to save the lives of many youth,  pregnant women and children who are passing through some silent economic and health challenges. “We will create an enabling environment for farmers to produce bumper harvest at all times and above all, we will ensure that we completely transformed the Security architecture of the country to prevent reckless killings and the rampant kidnappings in the country,” the statement read in part.   Wasa further called on the people both within and outside the state to make haste and collect their PVCs so as to be eligible to vote during the elections.