The Bauchi State Sector Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has confirmed that 18 persons were burnt to death in a ghastly motor accident that occurred a few kilometers to Nabardo village along the ever-busy Bauchi-Jos Road in Toro local government area of the State on Wednesday evening. The crash involved two commercial vehicles, a Toyota Hiace Bus with registration number: FKE 688 YC and a MAN Trailer. FRSC said the bus had a head-on collision with the oncoming trailer and immediately went up into flames with all its occupants consumed by fire. Confirming the accident to journalists in Bauchi, the Sector Commander, Mr Yusuf Abdullahi, said 21 people, comprising of 18 male adults and three children, were involved in the crash. He, however, expressed sadness over the incident, saying that despite their unrelenting and tireless efforts at sensitising drivers on the dangers associated with speed violation, motorists have refused to observe simple road traffic regulations. “It is a very, very sad situation really. It is also very disheartening, it is a very bad report against us in the entire country. We spend two to three hours everyday sensitising them and telling them that their overspending and recklessness cannot take them anywhere but will only end their dream and life overnight. “Just look at this incident now, both the driver and the entire occupants of this bus were burnt into ashes, you can’t identify any of them,” he said. He added that the fatal crash was caused by a speed violation. “We were made to understand that as he (bus driver) was coming, he lost control and left his lane and faced an oncoming trailer and you know that the fuel tank of a hummer bus is very close to the engine. “The moment it has a head-on collision, the next thing is for it to go into flames. So, when this happened, it went into up flames as usual; it happened about three kilometers to Nabardo. “The incident happened in a bush where there were no people, there was nobody close that could render any assistance. The whole vehicle and the occupants were burnt to ashes completely,” he said. The FRSC boss further added that the mass burial of the ashes has been carried out by the Nigeria Police Force and Social Welfare Officers.