 President Muhammadu Buhari has appealed to voters, especially All Progressives Congress (APC) supporters, to vote for Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, his running mate, Kashim Shettima, Governor Mai Mala Buni and all other flag bearers of the party in the forthcoming general elections. Buhari made the call while addressing hundreds of APC supporters during the party’s rally in Damaturu the Yobe State capital. The president said electing Tinubu alongside other APC flag bearers will not only facilitate and consolidate on the progress so far made but ensure uninterrupted implementation of people oriented policies and programmes laid down by his administration. He said his administration has succeeded in degrading the activities of Boko Haram insurgents, injected huge sums of money in infrastructural development among others that need to be sustained hence the need for electing Tinubu and Shettima for consolidation. “The people from Yobe, Borno and Adamawa are the best to tell the world the barbaric act perpetrated by the Boko Haram insurgents before our election and the situation now. “As a stronghold of the APC, people of Yobe and Borno must work towards ensuring the victory of the party during the forthcoming general elections. “I would also like to remind you of the need to redouble your effort on both western and religious knowledge as a remedy to any challenges including insurgency. I equally employ you not to relent in farming for food sufficiency as our government will provide more fertilizer to farmers,” Buhari stated. Tinubu, while speaking, assured that if he is elected he will turn the northeastern part of the country into an agro-allied processing center. Tinubu equally promised to provide job opportunities especially to the teaming youths, adding that Nigeria has no reason to be poor.    Buni, on his part, said the entire people of Yobe State and the northeast will forever remain grateful to Buhari for his sacrifice and commitment towards the progress of the region.    The president has during the visit presented flags to the APC presidential candidate and his vice, Tinubu and Shettima as well as governor Mai Mala Buni.  