 Over 4,000 Community Development Associations (CDAs) across the state have endorsed the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in the forthcoming general elections. The chairman of the CDAs in the state, Afeez Hamzat, made the pronouncement during the 2022 Community Day Celebration at Police College, Ikeja, where representatives of all 57 council areas of the state participated. The event was organised by the state Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs. This year’s edition was with the theme, ‘Strengthening Community Engagement for Inclusive Governance,’ where participants were drawn in all the local government areas. The CDAs’ chairman said, “On behalf of over 4,000 active CDAs in Lagos State, we appreciate the State Government’s efforts towards our CDAs which is one of the fundamental roles of CDAs. Some of the landmark projects are the Blue Line, massive roads infrastructure, establishment of two new universities. “If not for the timely intervention of your government, many lives would have been lost in the state. We thank you for the efforts all geared for the wellbeing of the people.”  “On this note, the executive resolved we are openly endorsing you for a second term and we are presenting the APC flag to you as a symbol of our endorsement,” he stated.  Speaking at the event, Sanwo-Olu said, “I acknowledge every one of you and I recognize all the CDAs here today. It gives great honour to address you at another annual community day celebration. I cannot thank you enough for being our eyes and ears in the last three years since the launch of our greater Lagos.  “Let me emphatically say that at the inauguration of this advisory council in March 2020, you have not only been dependable but trusted. You have been given a lot of advice.  “Your modest endorsement of our second term is an attestation that we have been doing a lot. We want to tell you that the confidence you repose in us, we won’t embarrass you.”  While enumerating some of his achievements, the Governor pointed out that not less than 40 traditional rulers have been installed since his administration came on board.  Earlier, the special adviser to the governor on community affairs, Kayode Robert, said the programme was to demonstrate that dividends of democracy were provided for the people.