The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State assumed a fresh dimension yesterday as key stakeholders of the party boycotted its presidential rally in the state. The APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, was in Enugu where he addressed a rally at the Michael Okpara Square. But some key leaders of the party in the state, including foreign affairs minister, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, former Senate President, Senator Ken Nnamani, former Enugu Governor, Barr. Sullivan Chime, former Speaker, Enugu State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Eugene Odoh, former Secretary to the Enugu State Government, Chief Onyemuche Nnamani, among others boycotted the event. Also absent were the director-general of Voice of Nigeria (VON) Mr. Osita Okechukwu; the immediate-past chairman of the party in the state, Barr. Ben Nwoye and a presidential aide, Barr. Mrs. Juliet Ibekaku. Although the leaders earlier in the day received Tinubu at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, they stayed away from the rally. While the presidential candidate went to the Michael Okpara Square venue of the rally, the party leaders headed to Chime’s Enugu residence, where they addressed journalists. They stated that their absence at the rally was to send a clear signal to the national leadership of the APC that something urgently must be done over the crisis in the Enugu State chapter of the party. The various speakers, including Chime, Nnamani and Odoh said they were not privy to all the preparations and programme for the rally. They, however, described Tinubu as a good candidate, assuring that they would work for his victory in the presidential election. According to Chime, “we received our Presidential candidate at the Airport. We believe in him, he is the best. “However, we are not at Okpara Square because of the internal issues we have in Enugu within the party. It has been there and this is because sometime in October, 2021, a non-member was foisted on us after the botched State Party Congress as a so-called chairman. “The party leaders went to Abuja, complained but nobody took them seriously, the issues continued. So, we have to distance ourselves from the local chapter of the party. “After today, we expect that the party will do the right thing.” On the party’s candidate, Chime said, “we will ensure that he gets more than the required 25 percent. Enugu must be counted. “Today’s event is just a rally, the major thing is the election and we are working hard to see to the victory of the party.” Also speaking,  Senator Nnamani declared that, “Tinubu is the candidate of the party and all loyal party members will support and work for his victory.” He, however, disclosed that “we are not aware of the preparations for this rally. That is why we did not want to go and create a scene there.”