The member representing Ovia federal constituency of Edo State under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the National Assembly, Hon. Dennis Idahosa, has said that the decision Ovia people have taken was such that those that placed the area on the path of retrogression and underdevelopment would no longer be entrusted with public offices.  He added the electorate in his constituency were so conscientised and ready to punish those who had underdeveloped the constituency, with their votes in the February 25, 2023 general elections.  Idahosa stated this while fielding questions from journalists in Benin City, Edo State capital, on his intention to seek a second term as a member of the House of Representatives.  The lawmaker, who noted that the decision to seek reelection lies squarely with his constituents, however, said that there was no comparison between the Ovia federal constituency he met and the Ovia of now.  Idahosa stated that before now, there was a huge gap in terms of interactions between the people and their representatives as well as attraction of dividends of democracy to the constituency.  He noted that it was as a result of the infrastructural gap in the constituency that in 2019 he christened his campaign “Liberation of Ovia from Under-performance and Under-development”.  The lawmaker stressed that he has been able change the narrative in almost four years of his stewardship to the people of Ovia federal constituency.  “God has used me to open our eyes that a lot more can be achieved only if we truly desire the growth and development of the area and its people.  “For a start, there is now that connection between the people and their representative unlike what was obtainable in the past. This is in addition to the numerous projects that I have been able to attract to the constituency.  “Just to mention a few, we are saving our children from the trouble of having to travel long distances to attend classes and also improving our learning environment by building schools across the 23 Wards that make up the constituency.  “We have also been able to attract other projects such as townhall, street lights, bridges, health centers, amongst others.  “Most importantly, God has used me to improve on the standard of living and quality of lives of the people through a number of empowerment programmes I have initiated and executed within this short time in office.  “Again, let me reiterate here that my service to Ovia people was divinely orchestrated by God. He remains the ultimate source of my victory, not man.  “This must be sustained by the resource God is using me to fulfill his purpose for Ovia,” he stated.  The lawmaker said that he has attracted and executed 80 constituency projects across the 23 Wards and moved 18 Motions as well as sponsored four Bills in the House of Representatives with direct bearing on Edo State and Nigeria at large.