Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has condemned the incessant attacks on its staff and described the action as barbaric. This concern was raised in response to the frequency of attacks on its staff, most recently, at Ajegunle Zone and Royal Palm Will Estate respectively which led to the arrest of individuals found guilty of the attacks. General manager, of Corporate Communications, Godwin Idemudia, who expressed the displeasure, however, reiterated that, EKEDC will continue to employ a cordial process of engagement with its customers and stakeholders and continue to find amicable ways of complaints resolutions as it affects communities and customers. Idemudia further reiterated that EKEDC will not hesitate to apply the full weight of the law in dealing with erring customers and members of the public that take the law into their hands through assaults on its staff and officials. Idemudia said: “while we understand that sentiments regarding utility services can be quite emotive, we maintain that wanton attacks on our staff are completely irrational, irresponsible, and unproductive, especially, where EKEDC has provided multiple channels through which customers can lodge formal complaints with respect to our services. We have videos of our staff being chased with a pole in an incident that led to multiple injuries. Nothing justifies this action as it is barbaric.” Where these attacks persist, he said, EKEDC, in line with her obligation to provide service under a conducive atmosphere to its customers, will, as a matter of course, continue to escalate such matters to law enforcement agencies. “We wish to therefore urge all stakeholders, community leaders, leaders of youth groups, and all persons of interest to remain mindful of these matters and adopt a more civil approach to engagements as all parties are deserving of reciprocal respect and regard as espoused by all laws,” he opted out. He further explained that, while there may be concerns and disputes arising from complaints and service issues, EKEDC remains committed to finding long-lasting and mutual resolutions in the equitable interests of all parties.