The Labour Party (LP) governorship candidate in Kaduna State, Hon. Jonathan Asake, has assured the Muslim Ummah that his administration will operate on the principles of fairness, equity and justice as enshrined in the 1999 constitution.
Asake gave the assurance when he and his running mate, Rt. Hon Bashir Aliyu Idris met with Muslim clerics in continuation of their dialogue with stakeholders in the state at the weekend in Zaria.
He said as religious leaders who control large followers, majority of whom have been affected by the wrong policies of the APC government, it was imperative to seek their prayers and support as well as interact with them on the way forward for the state.
The governorship flag bearer said he will defend the rights of every citizen to exercise their sociocultural and religious freedom at all times, adding that inclusiveness will be his watch word.
A press release made available to journalists in Kaduna yesterday by media aide to the governorship candidate, James Swam, quoted Asake as urging the clerics to deeply reflect on the prevailing economic and security situations of the state and preach the truth so that the electorate would understand what choice to make on March 11. “I came to unveil myself to you, to seek your prayers and support to succeed in becoming the governor of Kaduna state come March 11 so that together we could secure the state and restore hope to the people. “I will be fair and just to all citizens and segments of the state. I will rule by the principles of justice as enshrined in the 1999 constitution as amended. I will defend all and promote all, and each person will exercise their freedom as the constitution permits,” the release quoted the governorship candidate saying. He lamented that poverty, unemployment, banditry, kidnapping, ethnic and religious conflicts were the result of bad leadership in the state and pledged to reverse the trends within a record time in office. He said when leaders do not operate on the basis of inclusiveness and empathy the society was bound to experience decline in all ramifications. According to James Swam
Media Aide to LP Governorship candidate, Asake told the Islamic clerics that only the Labour Party has the family as its centrepiece as emphasized on its logo showing a father, mother and child. He said as the party of the working class and the downtrodden, the people of the state would not regret voting the Labour Party, LP. A cleric who spoke, Imam Shugaba Abdulhamid Muhammad, urged the governorship candidate to keep to his promise, adding that it is important “to operate an open door policy” in order to be accessible to the common man. He lamented a situation where leaders get elected and shut the door behind them, saying “if we see failure in your policy implementation, we shall express displeasure openly”.