 A support group of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Tinubu/Shettima Grassroots Campaign Council, has commenced grassroots mobilisation for the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Tinybu, ahead of next month’s general election. Accordingly, the mobilization tagged “Door-to-Door, Neighbour-to-Neighbour” for the Presidential Support Committee took the campaign to Karu in Nasarawa State where they urged Nigerians to file behind Tinubu. The group dismissed other parties’ presidential tickets as lacking in content, character and capacity, just as it called on Nigerians to cast their lots with the APC to ensure complete restoration of the country. Deputy national coordinator of the Door-to-Door Neighbour-to-Neighbour, Dr Bola Abdulwahab Yusuf, said members of the organistion are well prepared for the task of delivering the Tinubu/Shettima ticket next month at the polls. Speaking when members of the group stormed Karu town in Nasarawa State, Yusuf stated that the event forms the commencement of several events that has been designed by his group in its quest to deliver the ticket. He said, “We are firm believers in the Tinubu/Shettima ticket and we have all signed in as committed members to deliver the ticket by the grace of God. Having convinced ourselves, we are here to further convince Nigerians to come on board with us. “This is the whole essence of this door-to-door initiative to meet with you Nigerians living here in Karu. We are selling to you the gospel of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Senator Kashim Shettima ticket, which is the best deal for the country.” According to him, the ticket towers far and above others because of the experience, pedigree and verifiable accomplishments of the two personalities in the ticket. “We have examined all the candidates of all the political parties and we are convinced that based on all parameters that can be used to measure competence and capacity, the APC ticket towers fall above all others and we urge all Nigerians to sign in.” he said. So far, the group has visited several cities, both in Niger, FCT and Nasarawa States, including Karu, Kwaki, Suleja, Kuje, Abaji, Gwagalada, Dikko and Maje. Yusuf declared that the committee would go round the country to deliver Tinubu/Shettima.  