The minister of youth and sports development, Mr Sunday Dare and the immediate past president of the Confederation of African Athletes CAA Region II, Engr. Ibrahim Shehu Gusau, have congratulated the newly elected executives of the region for emerging victorious at the elective congress held at the Lam Palm Royal Beach Hotel, Accra, Ghana on Saturday. AFN boss Okowa emerged as president of CAA Region II after defeating his Benin Republic counterpart Degon Vierin in the second round 9-6. The first round ended in a stalemate. Dare expressed his delight at the victory of the Delta state-born sports administrator, saying it comes as good news to Nigeria. “I’m glad at this victory and I’m also not surprised that Okowa has ascended to the level of international leadership in athletics. He has paid his dues from the grassroots, in Delta State and now he is performing creditably at the national level. Gusau, who was a chief observer at  the election in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP Sports on Sunday, said the region won, insisting that neither victors nor vanquish emerged. “The CAA Region II being the biggest in the continent of Africa is one big and strong family with a sole purpose to develop Athletics. “Saturday’s election was only a family debate to choose who will run the affairs of the region for the next four years. I congratulate those elected, while those who weren’t elected should know, and understand that we must all join hands with these executives  to lift the region. “I therefore charge all elected officials to work hard and ensure unity among our members. The challenges are enormous, but they are surmountable. “Under my leadership, we were able to organise the region’s annual competition; this ought to continue for the sake of building on results achieved in the last four years, wherein meaningful progress was made in our various national federations.I can attest that this has enabled us to achieve that strong bond in the region,” Gusau’s statement reads. Others elected executives are: Doudou Joof (vice president), Alio Oumarou (financial director), Ousmane Camara (auditor) while Sawadogo Missirit returned as technical director. Aminata Keita and Ouoally Sara were elected council members. Region II comprises all countries in West Africa. 