 All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi State has said the blackmailing of its governorship candidate in the state, Ambassador Baba Abubakar Sadique, is a clear sign of victory for him in the general election. “History has shown that blackmailing a governorship candidate on the basis of his origin only aid him in securing victory as it happened with the former governors, Mallam Isa Yuguda and Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar as at the end of the day they got the people’s mandate and served the state,” it said. The APC state media committee chairman, Comrade Sabo Mohammed, yesterday, in Bauchi told members of the ruling party in the state that they should instead focus on why they failed to fulfill their campaign promises rather than blackmailing candidates of other political parties. Comrade Sabo Mohammed who was fielding journalists’ questions said that the APC if given the mandate would not only fulfill its campaign promises, but equally take Bauchi State to the next level as canvassed by its gubernatorial candidate, Air Marshal Sadique Baba Abubakar (rtd). “Everybody in the state knows that the education sector is in crisis, nobody will dispute the fact that health in Bauchi is in serious crisis, even people in the government knows that they have failed in fulfilling the promises to the civil servants, civil service in the state is in serious crisis, government has failed after several promises to redeem pledges. “It is also a glaring fact that this government has abandoned the youths and women, they have not evolved skills acquisition programmes to incorporate the youths and women for better livelihood, the government has not fulfilled any of the promises and pledges it had made to the people,” Mohammed said. He recalled that the party’s governorship candidate has in the race to the Government House, Bauchi been providing a number of interventions, especially in the areas of health and education to mention but a few. “He has of recent awarded 201 scholarships for health students at Malikiya College of Health and Medical Sciences, Bauchi, awarded 419 slots for NECO and WAEC for indigenes of the state, as he is also talking about how to rejuvenate the agricultural sector for self-sufficiency in food production”, he stated. “The incumbent governor knows that he dislodged a sitting governor in 2019, so it would be replica in 2023 because Air Marshal Abubakar is assiduously working in canvassing the voters to believe in his project of ‘Renew Hope for Bauchi state’,” he said. According to the spokesperson, Ambassador Sadique Abubakar is working hard to win the confidence of the electorates whom, he opined, would come out en-masse to vote APC into power, describing APC as the most popular party in the state and the country at large. The spokesperson said, “With e-transmission and quite a number of innovations in the Electoral Act, it would be very difficult for anybody to rig elections”, and advised the ruling party in the state to stop blame games and stick to issues-based campaigns. He described Air Marshal Baba Abubakar as ardent supporter of issues-based campaigns, hence his not joining issues with any candidate in spite of a lot of insults and blackmails against his person and candidature. 