 The Department of State Services (DSS) has said it was not in court against the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu, contrary to news reports especially as captured by a national daily. Describing the story, with the headline as “Court Stops DSS From Arresting INEC Chairman”, as misleading, the DSS spokesperson, Dr Peter Afunanya, on Friday, said though the media outfit argued that what was reported in its online version was different from the hard copy, it has, however, become necessary to address the issues for public interest. Dr Afunanya said the DSS has discovered that the newspaper skewed what transpired at the court and reported it out of context. The DSS said, “This statement, however, becomes important to guide public understanding and perception, especially that the said report is misleading. It falsely left an impression that the Service went to court against the INEC chairman. “Nonetheless, the Service is aware of the antics of some mischievous elements who are desirous of fomenting crisis in the country, including creating unnecessary controversies around the forthcoming general elections.
One of their strategies is to subvert the efforts of the Service in ensuring peaceful coexistence and harmony. Another is a determination to overheat the polity and subtly exploit the judiciary to distract or even undermine not only the Service but other security and law enforcement agencies from undertaking their constitutional roles. “The DSS, therefore, warns these individuals and groups to desist from their devious plans. “It also advises all critical stakeholders to be vigilant and resist attempts to use them to thwart the law. While assuring Nigerians and the International Community of the Service’s commitment to the maintenance of law and order, including an accomplishment of a free and fair 2023 election as already pledged by Mr President and Commander-in-Chief, the Service urges all and sundry to join in the pursuit of national stability and unity.”