 The Ebubeagu commander in Afikpo South local government area of Ebonyi State, Mr Kalu Chima of Amaetiti, Amaoso Edda yesterday said that the hoodlums who attacked his house and shot dead his pregnant wife were 19 in number with AK-47 rifles. In an Interview with LEADERSHIP in Abakaliki, the Ebubeagu commander said that the hoodlums attacked his house on the 1st January, 2023 when they were deeply asleep. He said on the faithful day when he was sleeping with the pregnant wife, his 12 and 2 years old daughters, Blessing Kalu Chima and Roseline Kalu Chima heard a gunshot in front of his house which woke him up immediately. “I walked to the window and opened the curtain and saw men with AK-47 rifles numbering about 19 and I know them all,” he said. He said among them is a coordinator of one of the development centres in the local government area, adding that he led the others to his house and was dishing out instructions and positioning them. “He ordered them to cordoned off my house. Some of them hit my door twice. I immediately told my wife let’s run away but because she is pregnant, she can’t run. “When the door was hit by the third one, I left my wife and my children behind from the back door. I jumped through the fence and landed on where villagers threw wastes and laid there.”When I heard the last gunshot and my wife shouted and I didn’t hear her voice again. They poured fuel on my two houses and set them on fire. “I called my personal assistant to check what was happening in my house. When he got there, they had finished everything they were doing and he saw the dead bodies of my wife and my two kids in the pool of their mother’s blood. “I called one of my neighbours who assisted me because I was no longer in order and they came and assisted in carrying my wife’s dead body to the mortuary and deposited it,” he said. The Ebubeagu commander alleged that the coordinator of the development centre who led the group has been arrested. “Currently, the coordinator is with the police at the command headquarters in Abakaliki. Others are on the run but the police are seriously looking for a way to arrest them,” he said. He stated that it was the same group of hoodlums that burnt the state APC chairman’s house and killed his brother adding that luck ran out on one of them as he was shot on the leg by the police while perpetrating the act. “He ran to Ohafia in Abia State with the bullet. He was finding a way to remove the bullet and he couldn’t see it. The doctor there told him to get a police report before he can remove the bullet and he doesn’t have any way to get the police report. “He called one of them that followed them and attacked my house and told him that he should beg me as a Commander of Ebubeagu to meet DPO to give him a police report for him to use so that doctor can remove the bullet from him,” he revealed.  Chima said that he has reported the discussion to the assistant commissioner of police.