 The Big Tent, a strategic group within the Obi Movement of the Labour Party has urged Nigerians to take back the country by coming out en masse to vote for Peter Obi during the presidential election. Director Public Affairs And Strategic Communications of Obi-Datti Independent Presidential Campaign Council (The Big Tent) Prof Chris Mustapha Nwaokobia Jnr, said 2022 in so many ways will pass for a horrible one but for the message of hope that the Obidients, that Peter Gregory Obi, that the Labour Party, and the BIG TENT brought on the political amphitheatre. Nwaokobia noted that the horrific state of insecurity, the unending ASUU Strike, the collapse of infrastructure, the drastic state of unemployment, the reign of benumbing corruption, the perfidy of the operators of State, the many fuel queues, the repeated collapse of the National Grid plunging the nation in Darkness, the flood that ravaged 31 of the 36 States in Nigeria, and the parlous state of the economy had left the space troubled and Nigerians melancholic but for the candidacy of Peter Gregory Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed that brought some fresh air on our socio-political kaleidoscope. “Let us walk together and work together until victory is won. Let us push the message for a New Nigeria until we take back our Country through the power of the Ballot in February 2023. Let us continue to preach the message of a New Nigeria until we Take Back Our Country for good though our Votes come February 2023. main resolute for through our Votes we can make 2023 Annus Mirabilis. May God Bless Nigeria.”   He said millions of Nigerians Young and Old, those at home and in the Diaspora have gladly chosen to rename themselves OBIDIENTS, believing and trusting the OBI-DATTI presidential ticket.   “The monumental failure of the APC and their choice of a Presidential candidate whose cognitive ability is manifestly challenged, whose CV wreaks of Fakery, whose humongous opulence speaks to unhindered corruption, who has drug trafficking charges over his head, and whose overall health is largely suspect, left the people greatly troubled and hopeless, until the Labour Party unveiled a candidate of Hope, of Decency, of Decorum and of Capacity.   “The PDP that should understand the urgency of now, chose gerontocracy over justice, over equity, over fairness, and over capacity and competency. They threw the call of the people for new tendencies in leadership overboard, and left the people troubled, until the Labour Party stepped in the fray with a Ticket of Hope ditto the Obi-Datti candidacy.   “Countrymen and women, without equivocation it was the One million-man Street Marches of the Obidients that rekindled hope and redefined our politics. They reshaped the fabrics of our politics such that the comedic theatrics of those seeking public office eating maize/corn on the streets, plaiting hair by the road side, hawking groundnuts and eating in public bukas gave way to issues based interaction.   “Obi is changing everything for good whilst yet a candidate. He is speaking to Nigerians at home and to those in the Diaspora. He is presently Africa’s greatest merchant of Hope. He is a Pan Nigerian candidate and he is passionately engaging the old and the young as we seek to retire the old order in the battle of our lives. Yes, we must TAKE BACK our Country for good.   “We can make 2023 Annus Mirabilis which is the latin phrase for a remarkable and an auspicious year. We can do so by successfully birthing and berthing this peaceful ballot based peoples revolution. Folks, we can make Nigeria great again when we step out in February to elect Peter Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed as President and Vice President.   “Do not let the merchants of hate, of deceit, of poverty, of hopelessness, of insecurity, of ethnicity and religious jingoism deceive you. Do not sell your future for the blood soaked looted monies they throw at you. Do not sacrifice your destiny and the future of your children for a mess of porridge. And do not vote for those who have left our nation in the woods and worse than it ever was,“ he said.