The chairman of the Lagos State Taskforce, Shola Jejeloye, a Chief Superintendent of Police has reviewed the operational activities of the agency in the outgone year and concluded that they succeeded in making impact by reducing crime rate in the state. Jejeloye who spoke at the headquarters of the agency, Safety Arena, Bolade Oshodi, highlighted and analysed the statistics of operations in order to make room for improvements. He said, “In the year under review, we impounded 8,642 vehicles for various traffic offenses ranging from driving on one-way, obstructing the free flow of traffic, driving on the reserved BRT corridor and parking to pick or drop off passengers at unapproved bus stops in Lagos. Following the modus operandi of the agency, they were all charged to court accordingly. Jejeloye further disclosed that the year under review witnessed the ban on the operations of commercial motorcycles popularly known as okada in nine Local Government Areas and six Local Council Development Areas within the state, leading to confiscation and seizure of 18,537 motorcycles for operating despite the ban. ‘’After court proceedings, 17,980 bikes were crushed in Alausa to serve as a deterrent to other intending okada operators. It was quite a herculean task enforcing the ban on the operations of okada in Lagos but we were up to the task. We carried out sting operations on various Highways and other restricted routes to ensure that their activities were truncated. A total of 156 riders and 122 passengers were made to face the mobile court for patronizing the unwanted okada operators,” he stated. The Chairman also highlighted some of the lofty feats attained by the agency in Year 2022, which are the raiding of criminal hideouts, arrest of one-chance syndicates, demolition of shanties posing environmental hazards to Lagosians and bring the activities of land grabbers in the state to zero. He further disclosed that the Lagos State Task Force made a series of arrests of unscrupulous individuals who specialise in vandalizing both public and private owned properties and they were all made to face the full wrath of the law. “These are part of the gains achieved as a result of the synergy between agencies of the State Government through providing security backup for them when they encounter hindrances in the process of carrying out their legitimate duties. Environmental infractions were not left out by the Chairman who hinted that there would be more raids and activities in areas like illegal mechanic villages and car parks where environmental pollution is predominant. Jejeloye assured Lagosians that the agency would not rest on its oars until the goals of attaining a mega city status as enshrined in the THEMES agenda of the State Government is completely achieved. He appealed to Lagosians to resist the urge to commit crime and report anything suspicious to the agency through the phone numbers provided or through the social media handles. Jejeloye also urged motorists to obey traffic laws and desist from engaging in acts that could jeopardise the free flow of traffic within the metropolis, saying, “An orderly, serene and healthy environment gives birth to a progressive society”. Tinubu: Abdulmalik, Olonisakin, Buratai, Others Visit Lagos, Meets Lagos Speaker The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. (Dr) Mudashiru Obasa, on Tuesday evening received the Security and Intelligence Committee of the All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Council (APC-PCC), who were at the House on a courtesy visit. The visit comes a few weeks to the general election which has Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress. According to a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr.Eromosele Ebhomele, ‘’Upon arrival at the Lagos Assembly, the team led by retired military chief, General Jubril Abdulmalik, and which has top security experts including General Abayomi Olorunisakin, former Chief of Defence Staff and General Tukur Buratai, former Chief of Army Staff, immediately went into a close-door meeting with the Speaker.’’ Those in the entourage also include retired Assistant Inspector -General of Police (AIG) Hakeem Odumosu and Dr. Abdurrazaq Balogun, a former lawmaker and Executive Secretary of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund.  