Governor of Ogun State Dapo Abiodun has kicked off campaigns for his second term in office. The governor who is ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) standard bearer officially kicked off his campaign yesterday in Imeko-Afon local government area. Accompanied by the party’s chieftains led by former Governor Olusegun Osoba, they were at Afon, Ilara communities with the grand finale of the campaign held at Imeko, the headquarters of the zone. The governor in the company of senatorial, House of Representatives and House of Assembly candidates of the APC in Ogun West visited traditional rulers in the zone to seek their royal blessings The rally recorded a new feat as party members returned home with various household items and working equipment to support their trades and professionals, which they won through a draw. The governor said he would continue to fulfil his pledges and asked the electorate to also encourage him with votes. Abiodun appealed to them to collect their permanent voter cards (PVCs)ahead of the poll. He said his administration would establish a technical institute in Imeko, and also addressed challenges  of bad roads within the Imeko-Afon local government area. The governor assured his administration readiness to reconstruct the Abeokuta-Afon road.  He said, “I will commence the reconstruction before the end of the election to boost the socio-economic development of this area.  “We reconstructed Oke-Ola road here Imeko -Afon within the stipulated period. We have been doing our projects without making noise and we will not stop doing things that would be making our people happy.”  Osoba said his coming to Imeko-Afon council was like homecoming and recalled that it was the administration which brought electricity to the region.  The veteran journalist-turned politician said he encouraged Governor Abiodun to emulate his (Osoba) administration, which he said Abiodun had keyed into and paved the way for the success of his (Abiodun) administration, adding that he can vouch for the competence of the governor.  Osoba charged party members to work towards the success of the party at the poll, and also encouraged the electorate to vote for APC candidates of APC in the 2023 general elections.