Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu  yesterday warned Nigerians against voting for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the forthcoming presidential election. Tinubu while addressing a mammoth crowd of APC supporters during a presidential rally held at the metropolitan square, Ilorin, Kwara State, said several facts have pointed to the fact that the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar is only interested in the presidential race to enrich himself and his friends. He said just like he did in the past, if given the opportunity again, Atiku would only sell Nigeria to his shady friends in the name of privatisation. He said, “You earned a favourable and great place in the history of our progressive party and of the nation when you voted for the APC to chase the PDP out of this beautiful and historic town. You kicked them out and now they want to come back. “Do not let them back in.  They only want to devour what they could not take the first time.  If you give them the chance, they will strip Kwara and Nigeria bare to the bone. “The PDP candidate in the race is well known for selling everything that has the Federal Republic of Nigeria’s name on it.  If it is part of the public treasure or national patrimony, he is looking to pawn it to one of his shady partners. “He wants to sell off your chance at a decent job, good schools, a nice home and a happy life. His aim is to sell and turn our public assets into his private profit.  He wants you to go hungry so that he can feast off the abundance of the land.” Tinubu also dwelt on the recent revelation by one of Atiku’s former aides Michael Achimugu where the former vice president himself admitted to setting up Special Purpose Vehicle companies to siphon the country’s funds. “Before today, we used to call him Mr. Privatize. But today, we must give him a new name. One that comes from his own mouth. “He is now Mr. SPV. From his own mouth, we have heard him admit that he and his old boss conspired to rob from the Nigerian treasury millions upon millions of dollars. They did this by using a fancy business device called an SPV, Special Purpose Vehicle, to hide the money. “By his antics, Atiku has changed the meaning of SPV. It is no longer a business unit. With him, it is a money-eating monster. From henceforth, Atiku shall be known as MR. SPV. S for Stealing, P for Plunder and V for Vicious. “For this is a vicious assault on the public funds, public welfare and on the public conscience.  How can he so brazenly steal and plunder yet ask you to return him to the scene of the crime? He wants to return to the crime scene not to repent but to repeat the stealing, plundering and viciousness. “You must stop him before he stops your dreams and aspirations for a better Nigeria.” He said the APC just like it has done in the about eight years of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, has shown that it means well for the country and its citizens, promising to continue with this. “Instead, the APC has a much better way for you. We have good and positive plans for this country. “If you give us the mandate with your vote, we will carry Kwara and the rest of the country to a more prosperous and secure future,” he added. On education, he said, “We will prioritise education as a tool for empowerment. It is not just about producing more and more graduates. We will improve the quality of our education to make our youths more productive and will reform education such that our able and energetic young people are given the skills and knowledge needed to fill the jobs and compete in the economy of the future.” Earlier, Kwara State governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, had said that President Muhammadu Buhari performed excellently, adding that this would encourage Nigerians to vote for all APC candidates in the February,2023 general election. Abdulrasaq thanked the people of the state for the massive turn out while also urging them not to allow “those who stole your future, who could not pay your salaries and pensions to return to power.” The rally was attended by APC national chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, vice presidential candidate, Kashim Shettima, director general of the Tinubu-Shettima Campaign and governor of Plateau State,  Simon Lalong, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State, APC deputy national chairman (North), Senator Abubakar Kyari and members of the party’s National Working Committee among others.