 The latest Nigerian crime thriller ‘Shanty Town’ was released on Netflix on Friday, January 20, 2023 to rave reviews especially on the social media. The Xavier Ighorodje and Chichi Nworah creation follows the story of three Lagos-based hustlers who unite to wage war against the biggest and most ruthless crime ring in the State. Chichi Nworah, producer of the show, says: “Shanty Town is a unique show in that it is at once different as it is familiar. The tale of redemption will especially resonate with audiences familiar with the grit and hustle mentality of Lagos, and indeed other fast-paced and vibrant cities around the world. We are spotlighting the underbelly of the city, and bringing to life the various character dynamics that exist beneath the cover of everyday “normal life,” thus telling a truly fresh and compelling story. I cannot wait for the entire world to see Shanty Town!” Here are five things about the gritty series that have kept people talking: * Nude Scenes or Body Double: A body double is a person who stands in for an actor in a particular scene, usually for shots that purportedly show the actor’s nudity or specific body parts, such as the back legs or chest. Body doubles are commonly used in scenes that involve nudity, intimacy, or physical activity that may be difficult or unsafe for the actor to perform. They can also be used to create the illusion of more than one person in a scene, or to extend the amount of time an actor can be on set. It’s a common practice in the movie industry. Filmmakers use body doubles to avoid the risk of injury to the main actors, protect their privacy and to make the movie process more efficient. The use of body doubles in the film industry is a common practice that dates back to the early days of Hollywood. Body doubles are used for a variety of reasons, such as to protect the privacy and comfort of the actor or to ensure that the scene is filmed in a way that is consistent with the director’s vision. In Nigeria explicit nudity is forbidden by the regulator, National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB).
In the case of Shanty Town, the director and producers decided to use a body double for the nude scene in order to protect actress Nancy Isime’s privacy and comfort, and to comply with the country’s laws and regulations. Isime, who has caused a buzz on the social media, has explained how nude scenes in the Shanty Town series were achieved. The scene which shows her unclad went viral on Friday and sparked debates online on whether or not that was the real nude of the actress. But, reacting to the conversation, Isime revealed that it was not her nudity that was on display in the scene, but rather a body double. “Simmer down horny boys and girls. I know those gorgeous body parts excite you but they sadly belong to my beautiful body double. Mine aren’t that succulent,” the actress wrote on her Instagram page. * A-List Cast: Shanty Town’s incredible star cast features Nollywood veterans like Richard Mofe-Damijo, Ini Edo, Chidi Mokeme, Nse Ikpe-Etim, Shola Shobowale, Shaffy Bello, Ali Nuhu, and Uche Jombo. Also, featuring in this star-studded show are Zubby Michael, Nancy Isime, Yaw Naija, Omowunmi Dada, reality TV star Mercy Eke, Shola Sobowale, Regina Daniels, Judith Audu, and one half of iconic Nigerian music duo P-Square, Peter Okoye. * The Story: The synopsis of Shanty Town reads, “A group of courtesans attempt to escape the grasp of a notorious kingpin, but political corruption and blood ties make freedom a near-impossible goal.” Shanty Town follows the story of three Lagos State hustlers who unite to wage war against the biggest and most ruthless crime ring in the state. Based in a small town in Lagos named Shanty Town, the show explores the lives of sex workers under the leadership of a tyrannical handler named Scar. The show begins by showing us some backstory with a family escaping from raiders as they lose everything they had. Two of the family members died, and one of the girls is taken into a drug cartel that also doubles as a prostitution ring. * Production Crew: The series was produced by Chinenye “Chichi” Nworah’s Giant Creative Studios, Champion One Entertainment and Minini Empire Production and directed by Dimeji Ajibola (Passport). The script was written by Xavier Ighorodje (Enakhe) and Donald Tombia (Introducing the Kujus) based on a story by Shirleyaan Ede, Xavier Ighorodje and Ayomikun Paseda. Xavier Ighorodje and Chichi Nworah are also credited as the show’s creators. Jonathan Kovel (Swallow) is credited as the director of photography. Popular actress Ini Edo was also an executive producer on the project. 