A classic cosy sweater and pair of pants that you can either dress up or down. You can wear a cosy turtle neck of classic colour like off white or maroon, with black or navy pants with a long jacket. Pair also with an ankle boot and a little jewelry. You can style a cashmere turtle neck with a skirt; this keeps your look a bit more formal and polished. To keep things a little more subdued going for a similar colour for the top and skirt – monochrome outlook, like off-white cashmere turtle neck with an off white but cotton skirt, will create interest but maintain a visual calm. You can hen pair that with an earthy/neutral-coloured coat. Contrast the colours of your pieces: You can pair a turtle neck and skirt by contrasting their colours. For instance, pair an off-white turtle neck with a black skirt, and a black blazer. You also wear a beige-coloured skirt with a black or navy turtle neck. Accessorizing with a bag of the same colour of the skirt and black shoes. Play with textures: You can change up your pants by playing with different colours or textures. The turtle neck and the pants can also be changed up with heels and bags, for appropriate occasions. You can pair a casual turtle neck with jeans: You can dress it down or up. You can dress it up by going for structure, and wearing darker jeans. You can easily change out your jacket for different effect – like leather jacket or plaid jacket. To dress more chick, you can dress up your jeans with a colorful silk top, that way you dress the silk top to match the effect you want to pair. You can also pair jeans with a more detailed sophisticated tops – like ruffled tops etc. then pair with ankle boot. Monochrome style (One colour, different shades): Pair the royal blue chiffon top with a navy trouser. By pairing these two colours, both are at an advantage: the navy becomes extra vibrant and the blue really pops. To make the look down to earth you can pair it with blue ballet flats. Go neutral: wearing neutral colours like off-white shirt and black pants can be dressed up with either heels or flats for a chic or casual looks. You can easily layer on neutral colours with either a vest, sweaters, jackets of similar colour. You can pair a silk shirt with a skirt, something that allow room for ankle boot or top boots. The classic wrap dress: a silk wrap dress can be paired with a chunky belt, high heels, or with tights, and heel black boots. You can also go for a shirt dress for more longer length/leaner look. 