MTN Foundation has commissioned the newly-renovated science laboratory at Government Secondary School, Owerri, Imo State. The project, which is part of the second phase of the Foundation’s Science and Technology Laboratory initiative, is designed to improve the teaching standards and learning outcomes of science subjects in public secondary schools. Following a set-criteria for the nomination, four secondary schools (Government Secondary School Owerri; St Augustine College, Igbuzor; St. Aquinas College, Akure and Queens College, Lagos) emerged recipients for the second phase of the Science and Technology Laboratory initiative. Each of the schools received full renovation of their Chemistry, Physics and Biology science laboratories including; installation of laboratory furniture, solar-powered borehole and alternative power solution, supply of laboratory equipment and consumables and training of laboratory staff. Speaking at the commissioning in Owerri, governor, Imo state, Hope Uzodinma, who was represented at the event by the state Commissioner for Education, Prof. JohnCliff Nwadike, said that the science laboratories which included chemistry, biology and physics laboratories, would encourage the students to enhance their knowledge on science, technology and innovation. He also commended the Foundation for effectively carrying out its corporate social responsibilities to the people. laudable zest with which MTN carries out its corporate social responsibility is clear for all to see. This administration remains committed to quality education at all levels, hence our readiness to support MTNF and other stakeholders who take the initiative to encourage us “ he said. Also speaking at the commissioning, Director, MTN Foundation, Dennis Okoro stated that the Foundation is committed to supporting government effort in the area of education. “The MTN Foundation has over the years been complementing Government’s efforts around youth development through the deployment of relevant initiatives. “The Science and Technology Laboratory Project is one of such initiatives, where we have identified the need to improve science and technology education, through the remodelling and upgrading of science laboratories in public secondary schools”  he added. In the past, the MTN Foundation has renovated science laboratories in 22 schools across several states in Nigeria including; Lagos, Abuja, Edo, Kwara, Katsina, Bauchi and Abia. 