Cargo Pants – is expected to go huge this spring, and will be out in various materials cotton, linen, satin, lace even ivory-coloured and in cotton. It is the tailored, slightly sophisticated detail, and tailored version of cargo look. Denim – denim shirts, skirts, mini and maxi and midi lengths. There will be also of jeans in the 90s trends – baggy, the tuxedo style etc. You can get creative and so what you wean to with your denim this year. Fringe, Ruffles and Bows: These are still going style as they reemerged last winter season. They will be huge this harmattan and summer season. Rosettes (Floral Applique): Fashion followers say there will be more rosettes attached to or sewn onto clothing this year than before. It is a kind of a new spin on floral trend, adding floral to one’s outfit without going over the top. Polka Dots: Polka dot outfits from gowns to skirts to tops, in various material from, sheer, to cotton to silk, satin etc. it is a sort of classic print that when done right, in the right pattern with the right silhouettes, is really fashionable. Drop Waist Dresses and Skirts: This 80s style trend, has a dropped down waist to lengthen one’s torso, especially for those who have short torso and a rectangular shape. Colours: Outfits in one colour (yellow, magenta, maroon, green, black) from dresses, tops and pants, to shoes and accessories, will be house this year. You can incorporate two block colours in one outfit – could be colour block dress or blouse. You can wear same colours in different shades. One great colour you will see is the pink and red. Dopamine Dressing: that is dressing to make you feel happy through joyful dressing in bright colours, that reminds one of spring time and fashion. You can wear this style by wearing colours you like. Longer Skirts: Maintaining the school girl looks with pleats. The key is to wear the skirt above the knees, keep it compact. Crotchet and Knitted Sweater: lighter knit sweaters with a twixt, like sparkled sweater. Lighter sweater, less bulker that heightens thew feminine look. White Tee Shirt: You can wear white tee shirts independently or style them with cotton blazers, monochromatic navy, black or jeans jacket and throw on some leather shoes black flats or slight kitten heel. Brown: Rioch chocolate brown will be huge this year. Likewise, we will see a lot of black colours too. Neutrals will also support our daily wears this year. Cobalt blues are also set to be huge this year. A cobalt dress or sweater is timeless and can be worn in any season. Block shape dresses and outfits: these are bold shapes that are much more pronounced. They are also bigger prints that are in blunt cuts, shapes ion forms od blocks in shapes of angles. Think rectangles and squares. 