The crises rocking the Enugu State All Progressives Congress (APC) has assumed another dimension following an attempt to expel or suspend former Senate President Ken Nnamani and other chieftains of the party. The party had on Wednesday set up a five-man disciplinary committee to look into petitions and reports of fact-finding committees that investigated allegations of anti-party activities against Nnamani and two other members of the party in the state. The committee headed by the state assistant legal adviser, Barr. Vincent Chieyina and secretary, Hon Jekwu Nnaji, was mandated to invite Senator Nnamani and two others, including a former commissioner in Enugu State, Ozor Joe Mmamel and Mr Nelson Maduka Arum to answer charges against them. The state secretary of the party, Hon Robert Ngwu, who presented the resolution of the state executive committee (SEC) after their meeting, at the party’s zonal office Enugu, said the party would not hesitate to expel or suspend Senator Nnamani, Ozor Mmamel and Arum, if found culpable. The state chairman, Barrister Ugochukwu Agballah also banned the group known as Independent Presidential Campaign Council in the state, noting that no group should be deceiving itself that it is campaigning for the presidential and vice presidential candidates of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Kashim Shettima, while campaigning against other candidates of the party in the state. Reacting to the development, the immediate past chairman of the party in the state,  Dr Ben Nwoye advised Agballah to take out time and read the constitution of the party, saying he does not have powers to suspend Nnamani and other stakeholders of the party. Nwoye said it was unfortunate that the APC chairman in the state also decided to ban the Tinubu/Shettima Grassroots Independent Campaign Council in the state that was set up by the presidential candidate of the APC, Bola Tinubu to assist in securing victory for him during the polls. He called on security agencies to interrogate Agballah, alleging that he was planning to use thugs to attack members of Tinubu campaign council. Nwoye alleged that Agballah was campaigning for the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, stating that he was only frustrating the ambition of Tinubu by claiming that he has banned his Independent Campaign Council. He expressed dismay that despite series of protest by notable chieftains of the party in the state including a former governor of the state, Sullivan Chime over the activities of Agballah, the national secretariat of the APC has refused to look into their complaints. 