The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Abia State, High Chief Ikechi Emenike has pledged to end insecurity in Umunneochi local government area of the state if elected in the March 11 poll. Emenike stated this yesterday while addressing a campaign rally in Amuda Isuochi community, adding that he would personally lead the charge to smoke out suspects. He said part of his agenda will be the provision of meaningful and gainful employment for the youths, creation of an industrial zone, and reorientation of the deviant and criminally-minded youths, among others. Expressing confidence that the ruling party at the centre will retain power, he noted the need for the state to be part of the victory basket by voting all candidates of the party. “Go and vote for APC. Involve your family members, loved ones and even your enemies for the developments you have been longing for and we will deliver them,” the development economist said. The member for Isuikwuato/Umunneochi federal constituency and deputy chief whip of the House of Representatives, Hon Nkiruka Onyejeocha said she had delivered on her campaign promises. Onyejeocha, who is campaigning for a fifth term in the House, noted that the party has executed many projects in the area including erosion control, infrastructure development, and educational institutions. Former speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon Martins Azubuike and former member for Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency, Hon Emeka Atuma, joined the call for the state to reject the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In an interactive session with Umunneochi Traditional Rulers Council at the palace of Ochi 1 of Isuochi, Emenike said his burning passion has been to develop the state into a first-world economy. “I feel ashamed that infrastructure, social services, payment of salary, gratuity, and pension are still campaign issues in the state” adding that “under my watch, there will be a future for the youths.” Speaking on behalf of the monarchs, Ikpa 1 of Aroikpa, Eze Ernest Onwuka appreciated Emenike for playing a central role in the citing of a federal polytechnic in the area, among other achievements. The monarch, who assured that they would encourage their subjects to vote for the party, appealed to Emenike to place “traditional rulers’ dehumanising condition in the state on your priority list when you assume office.” 