A foremost Diaspora-based Yoruba socio-cultural organization, Yoruba Global Council, has endorsed the candidacy of the All Progressives Congress (APC) flag bearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the February 25, 2023 presidential election. According to Professor Lere Amusan, the spokesman of the Yoruba Global Council and Prince Segun Akanni, The General Secretary, it has become imperative for Yoruba sons and daughters to rally round Tinubu for victory at the poll given the wrong speculations and misconceptions being expressed in certain quarters about Tinubu’s personality. “Tinubu only, among the top three candidates for the February 25 presidential election, possesses the required standard in education, exposure and experience to move Nigerians out her present challenges and provide Nigerians a new lease of life in line with his campaign slogan, ‘Renewed Hope,” posit Amusan and Akanni, adding that YGC is throwing its support for Tinubu in line with its core mandate of protecting the interest and advancing the course and aspiration of Yoruba sons and daughters in any fields, anywhere in the world. Yoruba Global Council, in its statement, noted that Nigeria’s foundation appears to shaky as songs of disintegration and dismemberment are being echoed by different ethnic nationalities on account of the age-long discontent and disillusionment occasioned by the inequitable distribution of the country’s commonwealth and the apparent neglect of the Federal Character Code thereby denying some sections of Nigeria a sense of belonging. “Tinubu and the party he represents, APC, is conscious of the depressing nature of our country and, if elected, is more than determined to right the wrongs and bring genuine relief to the victimized and marginalized Nigerians as well creating an enabling environment for all Nigerians to thrive and succeed irrespective of tribe, religion or party affiliation,” YGC remarks. The statement recaptures Tinubu’s track record as Lagos State governor when he appointed Igbos as commissioners and other qualified non Yoruba persons into key governmental positions, which it notes speaks volume of his belief in the oneness of the Nigerian nation. “There are pretenders who pay lip service to the issue of unity and diversity of the country. However, Tinubu’s noble ideals has continued to be replicated by successive governors in Lagos State, from Fashola to Ambode and now, Sanwo-Olu,” the statement adds. How to tackle the near-collapsed security of the country, according to the statement, is held dearly to the heart of Tinubu “and this critical and all-important national issue will be holistically addressed in line with his manifesto when voted into power.” YGC observes further; “Our national economy is in a state of comatose as Nigerians groan helplessly under the adverse effects of galloping inflation, fuel scarcity, naira shortage, unemployment and low or zero productivity. It is paradoxical that many Nigerians are extremely poor and living below the poverty line in a land endowed with huge human and natural resources. More importantly, the concept of power rotation between the North and South in every election cycle is recognized and respected by most of the political parties’ constitutions. President Muhammadu Buhari, a Fulani man from the North, has spent almost eight years; it is natural. To this end, it is now the turn of the South to present his successor without much ado. Asiwaju Tinubu may not be the only candidate from the South contesting for the exalted office, but he is the most qualified, most capable, most competent and most experienced of all the presidential candidates. Again, the 2023 general poll presents another unique opportunity for the Yoruba race and nation to get it right and avoid a repeat of what transpired in 1963 and 1993 when our two illustrious Yoruba sons, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, respectively, were denied the presidency on account of tribal enmity and lack of unity. The electoral Waterloo that befell the Yoruba nation then must not be allowed to befall us again. Therefore, the leadership of YGC calls on all Nigerians, especially Yoruba voters to come out in their millions and cast their ballots for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and also protect their votes. This is not the time for name-calling. It is not the time for blame games and it is not the right time for politics of bitterness. Rather, it is the time for national unity and reconciliation, including among Yoruba.” Yoruba Global Council is a foremost and prestigious Diaspora-based Yoruba socio-cultural organization established to advance the course and interest of the Yoruba nation through the promotion of unity, mutual trust, trade liberalization, co-existence and interactions with other ethnic nationalities in Nigeria and the Diaspora. It is also committed to deepening democracy by fostering the ethos, values and healthy best practices of representative government in the South West and Nigeria in general.