State governors elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) are currently meeting with the national chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, on Sunday. Adamu had on Friday summoned the governors to a meeting holding at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. Although details of the meeting was not given, LEADERSHIP gathered that it may not be unconnected with the crisis rocking the party ahead of next Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. It was also gathered that the meeting is meant to address issues of the Naira redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), especially the confrontational manner in which some APC governors have been opposing President Muhammadu Buhari’s stance on the Naira policy of the apex bank. Recall that 10 APC governors have filed a suit at the Supreme Court challenging the CBN’s Naira swap policy. Confirming the development in his opening speech at the meeting with the APC governors on Sunday, Adamu said recent developments necessitated the need for the invitation he extended to the governors. According to the national chairman, the essence of the meeting was not to sit in judgment against anyone with regards to the happenings in the country even as it affects the ruling party. Adamu stated: “I am happy with the response so far and it is my understanding that more of our members are still on their way coming. You will recall the recent developments that have necessitated the need for this invitation. “We do not want to sit in judgment against anybody in regard to where we are today in the country as it affects our great party. “I thought the best thing to do is to get all those who are holding forth in their respective positions and who were elected on the platform of the party to get together and have some interaction so that we can have a better understanding of what situation we are in. “That is the essence of this invitation. And it is my pleasure to welcome you most sincerely to this interaction.” A statement issued by the national publicity secretary of the party, Barr Felix Morka, notifying about the meeting last Friday had stated: “The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), His Excellency, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, invites State Governors of the Party to an emergency meeting to be held on Sunday, February 19, 2023 by 2pm at the National Secretariat, Abuja.”