A group under the auspices of Kaduna State Citizen Alliance Against Terrorism has called for the arrest and prosecution of the state’s Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Hon. Isa Ashiru, for allegedly holding a conversation with bandits. Addressing a press conference in Kaduna, chairman of the group, Mock Samuel Kure, urged people of Kaduna State to reject any candidate with a hidden agenda aspiring to govern the state. But in a swift reaction, media director of Isa Ashiru campaign council Mr Reuben Buhari, described the allegation as laughable and baseless. Describing the group as a mushroom group that politicians hide behind to spit bile, Buhari lamented that the group which he claimed was sponsored by the APC, has not seen anything wrong in its sponsors who after identifying the killers of his people, opted to pay them money instead of  prosecuting them. While cautioning the Kaduna people to learn  from the experiences of Katsina and Zamfara states that went into dialogue with bandits and made no success, Kure alleged that Ashiru is on talking terms with these criminals. “A Few Days back, Hon. Isa Ashiru Kudan, the Kaduna State People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Gubernatorial Candidate was a guest of Television Continental (TVC). Where he was expected to speak to Kaduna Citizens about his plans for them. He annoyingly used the rare opportunity to make case for terrorists that are making life unbearable for the populace. “Our group noted with dismay that despite the designation of the criminal elements as terrorists by President Muhammadu Buhari, Ashiru who ought to know better deliberately continued to call bandits.  ing his platform to downplay the evil of the group. “The issue of opening up and discuss with these bandits, they are human beings like us, we can do that and make sure we bring this matter to an end, they have been speaking, but according to them, people are not hearing, once you allow room for discussion, issues can be resolved on the table.” In a swift reaction however, Buhari described the allegation as laughable and baseless. According to him, “Both the chairman and the so-called group are unknown entities. They are a clear example of  all these mushroom groups that politicians hide behind to spit bile during election times. It is also laughable that  the APC, the individual claiming to be the chairman of the group, hasn’t seen anything wrong in his sponsor,  who traced the people killing his people, but rather than have them prosecuted, he gave them money. “Years after he did that, the killings have increased terribly. Kaduna is one of the most insecure states in Nigeria today and because Rt Hon. Isa Ashiru has vowed to concentrate on curbing the killings, they are trying to tthrowdust everywhere. No matter what they would say, Ashiru has been accepted across Kaduna and would succeed” he stressed.