The comedy segment of the entertainment industry has evolved over the years,from stand up comedy to movies.Since the outbreak of Covid -19, comedians have devised new ways of entertaining their audience.In recent times comedy skits have become one of the means through which these laughter merchants reach reach their fans with rib cracking jokes. Basically, a comedy skit is a short performance in which the actors make fun of people, events, and types of literature by imitating them.In this piece LEADERSHIP Weekend takes a look at the top 10 comedy skit makers in Nigeria,in no particular order.  Bukunmi Adeaga-Ilori (Kie Kie) is a TV and event host,known for her major pranks at real-life events and her numerous skits (both original and featured). She began skit-making by getting featured in skits by other comedians before starting her own. Kie Kie is often a trouble maker in her skits and is usually left to face the consequences of her actions. Her fans, therefore, look forward to Kie Kie getting into serious problems in her skits. She is known for the catchphrase “problem” at the end of her skits. Kie Kie has 1.4 million followers on Instagram at the moment.  Sydney Egere, popularly known by his stage name, Sydney Talker is known to be one of the pioneers of skit-making in Nigeria and has risen to prominence over the years for his uniqueness in delivering the craft.The comedian is sometimes referred to as the “Mr. Bean of Nigeria” because of his funny facial expressions.  Nas Boi is famously known for mimicking music star, Davido. This earned him the moniker “low-budget OBO”. He is also known as “Nas or Nasiru the comedian Nas Boi started off by mimicking sensational Nigerian artist, Davido in his videos. The unique art of playing the character, “Low budget OBO” earned him respect, popularity, and of course, income for a long time before he dropped the niche.In recent times Nas Boi has become one of the most sought after skit makers in Nigeria.  Chukwuebuka Emmanuel, popularly known by his stage name, Brain Jotter began his career in comedy when he was in college. However, he made his breakthrough in 2020 when he began sharing short comedy skits on Instagram. He is famous across various social media platforms like Instagram and TikTok.Brain Jotter has 1.6 million followers and is one of the top comedy skit makers in Nigeria.  Aloma Isaac Junior, popularly known as Zicsaloma.Prior to becoming a comedian, Zicsaloma contested in The Voice Nigeria season 2 competition and got eliminated in the semi-finals. After bagging his degree, he embarked on full time comedy in 2017, and became an internet sensation after his viral comic skit on TikTok.He  rose to fame in 2020 during the Covid-19 lockdown when he created lots of content and became a comedy sensation.  Maryam Apaokagi, popularly known as Taaooma,started skit-making way back in 2015 and has maintained her “African Mother” niche since then. Her videos often portray the actions and responses of a typical African mother and mostly end with a slap on her part. Taooma usually adopts various personalities in her comedy skits,her ability to play different roles has endeared her to millions of fans,and propelled her to elite status in the comedy skit making business.  Emmanuel Chukwuemeka Ejekwu, popularly known as Mr Funny or Oga Sabinus,was Born in Port Harcourt, Nigeria.Mr Funny discovered his comedy talent at a young age and began actively doing comedy skits while he was in university.Some of his role models who have influenced him in his comedy career are Mr Ibu and Charles Inojie.Oga Sabinus has also featured in multiple Nollywood movies, the likes of ‘Billionaire’s Bride’, ‘Man of War’ and many others.  Samuel Animashaun Perry,known professionally as Broda Shaggi is a native of Ishagamu in Ogun State but born in Ikene in Ogun state. At a young age, he took an interest in acting drama as influenced by his late father who was a drama teacher. He is notable for his satirical plays which he shared on Instagram.Broda Shaggi is also a singer and actor who has starred in major Nollywood blockbusters like Namaste Wahala and Fate of Alakada.  Adebowale “Debo” Adedayo, popularly known as Mr Macaroni,is a Nigerian actor, content creator and citizen activist.A trained thespian, his popularity grew from his comic skits on social media, where he plays the role of a political figure cum sugar daddy called “Daddy Wa” or a sadistic lecturer called “Professor Hard Life”. Mr Macaroni popularized catchphrases like “Ooin”, “Freaky freaky” and “You are doing well”.Mr Macaroni is considered one if the best skit makers in Nigeria,and has made steller appearances in some top Nollywood movies.  Nosa Afolabi, better known as Lasisi Elenu, is one of Africa’s most popular influencers, he is known for his skits with a ‘wide mouth’ disguise filter during performances and on social media. Lasis is one of Nigeria’s most popular social media influencers with 75,000 followers on TikTok and over 3.4 million followers on Instagram. His skits focus on varying themes from law to cybercrime, the economy, insecurity and philosophy. He started out as a musician before diverting to the business of comedy.Lasisi is one of the most famous skit makers in Nigeria.