Soundcity recently held the 5th edition of its continental music award festival, the Soundcity MVP Awards Festival powered by Tingo Mobile with sponsorship from MunchIT, Pepsi and Desperados. The event held recently at the Eko Convention Centre, in Lagos, Nigeria was anchored by South African actress, Pearl Thusi, and was opened with a superlative performance by Mohbad which set the tone for the night. Performers who captured the energy of African music in the course of the night include; Phina, Gyakie, Magixx, Pheelz, Spyro, Ruger, TI Blaze, Zuchu, Gyakie, Seyi Vibez, Ladipoe, Blackbonez, Ladipoe, Vector, Kaligraph Jones, Black Sherrif and a host of others. According to the founder of Soundcity, Tajudeen Adepetu, the MVP Awards celebrates and showcases the finest of African music as well as artists. The initiative, he said, recognises the hard work, creativity and craft of African Musicians provides its global audience access to premium entertainment and promotes the African entertainment industry. In celebrating the uniqueness of the African music culture, a black carpet reception preceded the award ceremony. Hosted by Eso Dike and Pearl Hart, while Latasha Ngwube and Enioluwa Adeoluwa hosted the fashion police. The reception featured interviews with the glamorous guests at the award ceremony. The founder of Tingo Moblie, sponsors of award, Dozy Mmobousi, said; “At Tingo, we are at the forefront of providing solutions for African businesses. Our platform leverages the energy of the African youths to drive innovation and there is no better ally than supporting African artists and the music industry hence our partnership with the Soundcity MVP award”. The award ceremony had fifteen categories, out of which Nigerian singers were twelve. It also featured special recognition for innovators in different fields including business, fintech , fashion and more. Ruger won the category for Best New Artiste beating Victony, Ayra Starr, Young John, Black Sheriff, Costa Titch, Phina and Wakadinali from Kenya. While Senegalese singer Akon received the Legend Award, highlight of the night was the special tribute to the recently departed entertainers including South African rapper, AKA who met an untimely death on the morning of the award ceremony.