Lawyers and judges in the five branches of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) in Enugu State boycotted court sittings yesterday to express their anger over the gruesome killing of a former chairman of the association and senatorial candidate of Labour Party (LP) for Enugu East senatorial district, Elder Oyibo Chukwu. The LP senatorial candidate and his assistant were on Wednesday night shot dead by gunmen in a white Hilux van at Eke-Otu Amechi-Awkunanaw Enugu, and were set ablaze in his vehicle by the assailants. Angered by the killing of the lawyer, the five branches of the Nigerian Bar Association in the state yesterday gave security agencies in the state 48 hours to fish out the perpetrators or wait actions from all lawyers in the state. It was observed that no court at the State High Court Complex as well as other courts across the state were sitting. Judges who were not aware of the decision rose immediately the information got to them. Addressing journalists at the court premises in Enugu, the Oji River branch chairman of the NBA, Seth Nwokolo, said the measure was taken to urge government and security agencies to apprehend the killers of the lawyer and for human lives to be adequately protected. “We are here to protest over the gruesome killing of our former chairman, Elder Oyibo Chukwu. Chukwu was also the candidate for Labour Party in Enugu East Senatorial District. “Elder Oyibo Chukwu, whom we are talking about his death was chairman of Oji River Branch between 2017 to 2019. “Just this morning, the news filtered in that he was gruesomely murdered and assassinated in the company of his followers around Obeagu-Amaechi Road. We are pained by this news and we want the security agencies in Enugu State to ensure that the perpetrators of this heinous act are brought to book. “We are giving them 48 hours to ensure that the killers are brought to justice. The bar in Enugu State is very embittered with this development. If after 48 hours, nothing happens, we will take a very necessary step as lawyers. “Already, we have started with boycotting court proceedings in all the courts in Enugu State. Those who were not aware of our decision rose immediately the information got to them because an injury to one is an injury to all”. He insisted that the killing was politically motivated, expressing worry that the days of terror were gradually returning back to Enugu. His counterpart in Ezeagu, Chijioke Eze, said, “We are worried that we are not far from the days when political killings were ravaging Enugu State. Witnessing gruesome murder again at this time is a very painful one.” 