 Director-general of the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA), Dr. Gambo Aliyu, has urged Nigerians, especially young people, to take advantage of the spirit of love and togetherness that Valentine’s Day signifies, to know their HIV status. “It is important that all Nigerians know their HIV status, as it marks the entry point to Prevention, Treatment and Care of HIV/AIDS,“ he said. The DG, in a statement said this occasion though significant in the lives of people globally, brings a lot of cause to worry about, as the expression of love, especially among adolescents, youths and other diverse populations most often fall out of context. “This period is observed to witness high rate of indiscriminate sexual activities and other amoral behaviours that lead to uninformed decisions among many. This development most often than not, exposes many people to high risk of contracting HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases,“ he said. He, therefore, urges Nigerians especially the youths to express love within the contest of caring deeply for their loved ones with intention to protect them from all forms of harm and avoiding risk factors that will make them vulnerable to HIV/AIDS and other STDs.  „As we express love for our partners during this Valentine’s Day, remember to love wisely. “As members of a wider society your health and productivity counts to both your nuclear, extended families and the entire country.  „Nigeria stands to benefit from the pool of your contributions. So I urge you to desist from practices that might expose you to risks of contracting HIV/AIDS and/or other sexually transmitted diseases as we commemorate these special Days. Once again I urge you to love wisely, share love, and not the virus,” he added. The NACA boss further reiterates that, “it is important to reduce the trend of new HIV infection in Nigerian youths through preaching abstinence, and for those who cannot abstain, to use condom which prevents Sexually Transmitter Diseases (STDs) including HIV and unwanted pregnancies. It has become important to ensure condom option is made available as a preventive measure to youths and people of reproductive age who cannot abstain from sex, with new HIV infections highest among young people aged 15-24 years and with the national data suggesting that about 4.2% of young people (ages 15-24) are living with HIV.“ 