 A support group of the presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has described him as the greatest builder of leaders in Nigeria. The group said this yesterday during a media briefing on the book launch and presentation on leadership style of Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu titled:”Builder of Leaders” written by Aliyu A. A. Butu. Author of the book, Butu, described Tinubu as someone who carries everybody along irrespective of where “you come from both in the business or in churches or mosque”, adding he is somebody who builds leaders either by fixing the economy or by fixing unemployment. Butu said, “I want to show the whole world who Ahmed Tinubu is and how he built leaders in Nigeria from all the geopolitical zones in Nigeria without bias.” In the same vein, the chairman planning committee of the book launch, Umar Tahir said, “Tinubu has been a very supportive father, most especially for those of us who grew up in Lagos. him as our mentor. So we will be behind him to make sure that he becomes the next president of the federal republic of Nigeria.”   Meanwhile, the co-chairman of the organizing committee, Aliyu Usman Waziri said “We are celebrating a brother who has taken all his observation to put in the paper the leadership of one of the most strongest in the history of Nigeria in the person of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.   “There must be a reason for the author to put in the paper the title of the book:”The Builder of leaders, Bola Ahmed Tinubu” so Tinubu as we all know has built leaders, not just in Lagos State or South West but rather across the legions of our country. He produced people like us. So Asiwaju today deserves to be celebrated.”   He said the advantage of building leaders is to continue in a progressive way and also to continue with the blueprint that would work for Nigeria and “you can see the type of people he has produced, who have been in all fields; such as banking, lawyers and all that. So he is not just building the leaders but he is also building Nigeria as a whole.”   He continued, “So I call on all Nigerians to join me to celebrate the build of leaders not only in Nigeria but Africa as whole. I’m one of the people who know Ahmed Tinubu to be part of the people who participated in selecting six leaders in Africa. He is somebody who has no tribal issues.”