Less than11 days to the 2023 general elections, five gubernatorial candidates of the African Action Congress (AAC) have disowned its party’s presidential candidate, Omoyele Sowore, saying he is undemocratic and inexperienced to serve as president of Nigeria. The gubernatorial candidates were: Iboro Robert Oru, Akwa Ibom State; Aliyu Ahmed, Kwara State; Ray Ken, Enugu State; Mojeed Kehinde Okedara, Oyo State; and Aliyu Adamu, Gombe State. Oru, who spoke on behalf of the other candidates during a press briefing, in Abuja, said Omoyele had shown himself undemocratic. He said Sowore is the party’s presidential candidate and also doubles as the chairman and national financial secretary of the party. He said: “As gubernatorial candidates and committed members of the African Action Congress party, in the past six months, we have come to see and have expressed reservations about the readiness, leadership, and attitude of our presidential candidate, Omoleye Sowore, who also doubles as the chairman of our party. “As a presidential candidate, against our advice of inclusiveness in party/team building and consolidating statewide structures, it is apparent he is not in the race and now clear his basic political inexperience and counterproductive divide-and-rule leadership style is not what Nigeria and Nigerians need at this moment of national healing nor will it lead us and indeed the party towards any socio-political or electoral win. “We, therefore, have decided not to back Omoleye Sowore or support his candidacy for president.” While denouncing support for Sowore, Oru, however, said that in no time, a new preferred presidential candidate would be announced. While bemoaning the spate of widespread hardship in the country, Robert tasked President Mohammed Buhari to as a matter of urgency begins addressing some of the anomalies currently being experienced by Nigerians. “Today, the price of various refined petroleum products of which we export its raw form are selling at 400 per cent of their market value or unavailable. Meanwhile, the naira used for transactions is now selling at 2, 000 thousand for 10,000, as a result of unavailability. “This has never happened before in the history of this great nation. We are facing national inflation at over 20 per cent with unemployment and underemployment at above 50 per cent in most states of the Nation. Security is a serious issue especially now we are about to start the elections in a few weeks. “The Central Bank governor, the Independent National Electoral Commission Chairman, and the National Security Council have all issued positive statements and outlooks on the readiness and socio-economic security of our nation, especially during these times but Nigerians need physical and empirical guarantees. “As serious and committed stakeholders in this election, we urge the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to keep to his promise of leaving behind a legacy of free and fair elections. As a government known to have failed on so many of its promises to Nigerians, we hope that President Muhamadu Buhari recognises that this quarter is his last opportunity to redeem himself and his government. “We are asking that this last lap be put to work, making sure and making available all resources needed to secure Nigerians and the elections; economically, socially, politically, and militarily. We encourage all stakeholders in this election, across party lines, to respect the rule of law and commit themselves to free and fair elections.”