Deputy national publicity secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Murtala Yakubu Ajaka, has said the party will shock presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, in his North-East geopolitical zone in next Saturday’s presidential poll.  Ajaka who stated this following the success recorded at the APC presidential rally in Borno state on Saturday thanked the state governor, Babagana Zulum, and the people of the state for coming out en-mass to support their son and the vice presidential candidate of the party, Sen Kashim Shettima.  In a statement he issued in Abuja, the APC deputy spokesman who attended the presidential rally said not even the bitting cashless policy would stop the determined people of Borno and the entire North East from coming out next Saturday to vote the APC.  “The Borno outing is a clear message for the PDP and its Presidential candidate that a surprise is awaiting them in the North-east,” he stated.  Ajaka expressed confidence that his party will not only win in North-east but emerge victorious at the general election across the country, even as he called on other states and region to emulate the North East by ensuring massive mobilisation for the APC.  He stated: “The people of Borno State have spoken loudly and the message is clear that they are for the APC and the fact that not even the ongoing bitting cashless policy will stop them from voting Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu and their son, Senator Kashim Shettima next week Saturday.  “I, honestly commend the government, the APC leadership and the people of Borno for this show of massive support. I will urge them not to relent or tire until the main goal is achieved next week Saturday.”  The APC chieftain also assured the people that Tinubu “is a promise keeper who will fulfil all the promises he has made in his manifesto and reposition the country for better.”  He called on Nigerians not to be distracted from the issues of competence, capacity and antecedent of Presidential candidates seeking their votes next week.