The presidential and national assembly elections held yesterday in Lagos State were generally peaceful and the turnout of voters was impressive. Though the voting exercise did not commence at the scheduled time in some polling units monitored in Lagos, the turnout of voters was massive. Officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) did not get to most of the polling units until about 10am There were pockets of violence in some parts of Lagos and cases of snatching of ballot boxes at gunpoint in the Akinyele area of Aguda Surulere. Policemen and soldiers also mounted barricades on the road in some volatile areas of the state like Mushin and Ijesha where there was a heavy presence of military men with armoured tanks. After casting his vote at Eyekole Ward 6, polling unit E3, Lagos Island, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu who was at the polling unit at about 11am in company of his wife, Dr Ibijoke said he was impressed by the turnout and the peaceful conduct of the poll. “I have cast my vote. The turnout is fair; the process is peaceful. I believe that the election is peaceful in other parts of Lagos. I pray everything will go peacefully,” he said. Speaking with journalists after casting his vote at Polling unit 002 Ikoyi 1, Eti Osa local government area, former deputy national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bode George urged Nigerians to vote candidates of their choice and should not allow party sentiments becloud their sense of reasoning. He said, “Nigeria needs somebody who can move her forward. We need to move forward unlike before, I am impressed by the turnout. “Nigerians should think before voting because Nigeria can’t afford another error.” Chief George also condemned governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-controlled states for criticising President Muhammadu Buhari’s policy on the Naira redesign. He said if the APC governors have done well, they don’t need to criticise their leader, maintaining that the election should produce a clear winner because he does not subscribe to the idea of the judiciary pronouncing the winner of an election.  “If APC governors have performed well, they won’t be accusing their leader. Nigerians should vote their conscience and INEC should allow the will of the people prevail.  “Nigerians should vote for individuals and not political parties. They should open their eyes; mind and vote for somebody who can move the country forward,” he said.  Commenting on the poll, the chairman of Mushin local government, Lagos, Hon Emmanuel Bamigboye said he was impressed by the turnout of the electorate and that he was optimistic his party APC would win the election because it has the structure and the antecedent of the party presidential candidate speaks volume.