The director general of the Kwara State All Progressives Congress (APC) Campaign Council, Alh Abdulfatahi Yahaya Seriki, has directed members of the council to embark on aggressive mobilisation of eligible voters in all the 193 wards of the state. Seriki gave the marching order during his maiden meeting with the zonal directors and directors of the 2,000- man campaign council, held at the council’s secretariat along Umaru Audi road, GRA, Ilorin, the state capital. The director general who said the goal of the council is to  surpass the all- round victory that the APC recorded in the 2019 general elections, urged the directors and other members of the council to immediately commence door to door campaign. “Luckily, His Excellency, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has lessen our tasks because of his superlative performance as evident in developmental projects scattered across the 193 wards in the state, regular and prompt payment of salaries and pensions of workers and retirees, both at the state, SUBEB and local government levels; women and youth inclusiveness in governance. “The governor’s investment in security which has made the state one of the safest states in the country and payment of counterpart funds are also worthy of mentioning.” “What is left for us to do as directors and members of the campaign council is to go to our localities and showcase our governor’s achievements in all sectors,” Seriki added. “Members must be on the field. We want a better results than we had in 2019. We should embark on aggressive mobilisation of voters and  focus attention on youths and women voters, “ Seriki further charged the council members. He congratulated them on their appointment and advised them to justify the confidence that the governor who is the chairman of the council reposed in them. Some directors, Dr Ghali Alaaya, Alh Saadu Salahu and Alh Hameed Adio who spoke at the meeting, thanked the governor for the opportunity given to members of the council to serve the party. They pledged to hit the ground running by embarking on grassroots campaigns and harvest more supporters for the APC ahead of the coming general elections. 