Authorities at the University of Benin have called for calm over a disagreement between students of the university and some soldiers which resulted in a fracas on Thursday and Friday. A statement from the Vice Chancellor of the University, Profesor Lilian Salami, said: “The unfortunate incident of the clash between some students of our university and soldiers on Thursday 2nd February, resulting from alleged resistance of students to the soldiers’ attempt to jump ATM queues on campus has been brought under control and the management of the university is in discussions with the hierarchy of the S & T for amicable resolution. “The management acknowledges that these are challenging times for everyone and enjoins all to remain calm  while efforts are being made to avert a re- occurrence. “ Management also calls on the students to constantly engage in dialogue in resolving issues that concern them rather than taking to protests, at any provocation, thereby causing more injury and damage to themselves and other citizens.” It was tales of woes, sorrow and blood for some students and staffs of the university when  yet to be identified military men stormed the UNIVERSITY in the wee hour of Friday. At the end of the midnight invasion, scores of security guards at the main entrance gate and passersby were injured as the sound of sporadic gunshots were heard for almost an hour.. Vehicles said to belong to the university and staff parked within the campus were not spared as their windscreens  were smashed . The alleged “reprisals” came Thursday night following a clash between some students of the university and soldiers, resulting from resistance of the students to the soldiers’ attempt to jump ATM queues on campus. The soldiers were said to have descended on a female student whom they assumed was recording the act on tape. Angered by the action of the female student,  the soldiers attempted to forcefully take her to their barracks which was resisted by the large crowd of students. A security officer on campus who was said to have intervened in the melee was allegedly assaulted by the soldiers.