Indigenes of Kwara State living in the United States of America have donated medical equipment worth $400,000 to Kwara State government.  The equipment were formally presented to the state government at an event that took place at the state’s Ministry of Health, Ilorin.  Speaking at the event, the state governor, AbdulRahaman AbdulRazaq, who was represented by the Commissioner for Health, Dr Raji Rasaq, said he had from the inception of his administration prioritised public health.  AbdulRazaq said he was highly impressed and thanked the donors “for providing succour to our people in Kwara state”.  “On our part, the health sector has remained one of the priority areas and the means through which we have reached out to the majority of our people in  respect of the dividends of democratic governance. I am happy to inform you as well that the resources and strategies that we  have deployed at addressing the multiple gaps and unacceptable health indices that we had met on assumption of office have since yielded positive results.  “The human resource challenges are also being addressed through routine recruitment to replace and provide appropriate strength of workforce while their salary packages have been duly improved and made regular,” the governor stated.  The governor added that collaboration and partnership with relevant stakeholders and consequent payment of counterpart funds had since enhanced healthcare services in the state.  One of the donors, Dr Lateef Olaniyan, noted that they had been giving necessary supports to the people back home before now, but were, however, encouraged to take a decision that this should increase in volume owing to Governor AbdulRazaq’s respect for Kwarans in diaspora.  Olaniyan thanked the governor for appointing Dr Omolola-Aje Sawyer as diaspora’s representative.  “I appreciate the state government and especially our governor who has been doing a wonderful job. I’m sorry he’s not here today but I’m sure he has a compelling reason for not being here. But nevertheless, we appreciate him for the reception we’ve gotten and like I said, we are willing to do more. This is just the beginning. So on behalf of the Seattle group and people in the diaspora, I want to thank the governor,” he added.  Elerin of Adanla, Oba David Adedunmoye, while delivering his goodwill message, submitted that Governor AbdulRazaq has done the people of the state proud.