 Kinsmen of the slain senatorial candidate of the Labour Party in Enugu East Senatorial Zone, Barrister Oyibo Chukwu, have called on the federal government to intervene in the incessant political killings in the state. They made the call when they paid a condolence visit to the immediate family of the late Labour Party candidate at his Enugu residence and called for justice for the late LP chieftain. Chukwu was attacked and burnt to death last Wednesday alongside other members of the party by unknown gunmen at Ekeotu Amechi Awkunanaw, Enugu while returning from campaign ahead of the 2023 general election. Spokesman of the Amuri Kinsmen, Dr Ben Nwoye expressed sadness over the murder of Chukwu, describing him as great statesman. He expressed dismay over what he described as conspiracy of silence, recalling that the perpetrators of previous killings in the state were yet to be apprehended. Nwoye therefore called on the federal government and the international community to intervene and stop blood shedding in Enugu. Decrying the situation where the family members of the late Chukwu were left without adequate protection, he called on security agencies to provide security for them. The former chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Enugu State called for the cancellation of the whole election in line with provisions of the electoral act, saying there was need for people to get adequate protection during the election. “Darkness has befallen Enugu State, Amuri and Nigeria; he was a good man, a statesman who served this nation with his whole heart, a former member of the constituent assembly. The sin he committed was because he indicated interest to run election to serve his people. “We the people of Amuri Ancient Kingdom are calling on the Enugu State, the international community and the federal government to stop blood shedding in Enugu. We cannot have democracy when you kill people because they want to vote. Amuri people need protection. The family of Oyibo Chukwu needs protection because we don’t know who killed him,” he stated.  