Nigeria’s fastest growing Commercial Bank, PremiumTrust Bank, has officially commenced business operations at Redemption City which would make it the 8th Branch opened by the bank within just nine months of existence. The opening ceremony was presided over by the general overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church Of God, Pastor Enoch A Adeboye. In his opening remarks, the managing director/chief executive officer of PremiumTrust Bank, Mr Emmanuel Emefienim, thanked Pastor Adeboye for his continuous support since the idea of founding the Bank was conceived. “In 9 months of existence, we have won three awards; LEADERSHIP Most Innovative Bank (2022), BAFI Nigeria’s Fastest Growing Bank 2022, and BAFI Bank of the Year 2022 (Sports Development). “We were Lead Sponsor/Sole Banker to the 21st National Sports Festival; we co-sponsored and kitted Bayelsa Queens FC who represented Nigeria at the CAF Women’s Champions League Competition in Morocco, where they returned with a Bronze Medal. PremiumTrust also signed on two world-class renowned Athletes, Tobi Amusan and Ese Brume as brand ambassadors; this was done to encourage them, provide training funds to enable them to compete and excel in their chosen field and do more for our country – Nigeria. This is in addition to our 3-year partnership deal with the Athletics Federation of Nigeria. All of these put together made us stand out as worthy winners of these prestigious awards. “We want to be the number one digital bank in Nigeria by rolling out digital solutions like you have not seen in the history of Banking in Nigeria. These solutions would give our discerning customers access to financial services around-the-clock and from the comfort of their homes.” On his part, Pastor Adeboye, in his opening remark commended the leadership of PremiumTrust Bank for establishing their branch at the Redemption City. The revered cleric stated that he was present at the Tape Cutting event as he has noted PremiumTrust Bank is committed to impacting lives and communities where they do business. Pastor Adeboye prayed for the Bank as he officially unveiled the Redemption City branch saying that the branch will perform excellently. “Those who do business with the Bank will prosper” he prayed. Highlight of the ceremony was musical performance by Nigerian gospel singers, Nathaniel Bassey and BJ Sax who were on ground with their musical teams as they thrilled attendees with some gospel songs. 