The chances of Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate Peter Obi received a major boost as a faction of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) on Monday endorsed him as its candidate for next Saturday’s presidential poll. Speaking at an event in Abuja organised by the party to officially adopt Obi as its presidential candidate, chairman of ADC’s board of trustees (BOT), Dr Mani Ibrahim, called on Nigerians to massively vote for the LP candidate and his running mate Ahmed Baba Datti. “After our due diligence and critical assessment of the 17 Presidential Candidates and what they have to offer Nigerians, and after consulting our Grand Patron and former President, General Olusegun Obasanjo, we decided as a party that the Obi-Datti Movement is a worthy cause to endorse. Today, we form this Star Alliance for one purpose only: to ensure a loud victory,” he stated. Present at the event to endorse Obi were members of the Star Alliance Partners comprising Nigeria Mothers for Good Governance, Fulani United, Nigeria Artisans, League of Imams, Nigeria Traders, Yoruba United, Mega Political Coalition, Kanuris United, Nigeria Professional Group, DG Global Groups, Almalgamated Coalitions, Groups and Nigeria Legions United. The BoT chairman noted that for the collaboration with the Labour Party to be more effective, ADC candidates for Governorship, senatorial, House of Representatives and State Houses of Assembly positions should receive reciprocal support where they are more dominant than their Labour party candidates. He stated: “This Star Alliance is significant because we must decide to shape the space mindfully going forward or believe me, this country is doomed. A whole generation of 20/30 years has passed since, after the annulled June 12 election of 1993. “This democracy was as a result of the combined efforts and sacrifices of many: civil society leaders, concerned professionals, labour, PRONACO and NADECO, Nigeria’s International friends, and many other individuals and patriots. “Today, Nigeria has become more divided than ever before. Leaders at National and State levels have learnt the art of designing and borrowing framework to source for money across the world to no end, while they leave the country and future generation in perpetual debts. For over two years now, Nigeria has maintained the shameful record of the poverty capital of the world. “The insurgency and brigandage at all levels across the country is mind-bugling. Boko haram, banditry, kidnapping and dangerous activities of herders who have infiltrated the country from all over Africa continue to leave the country in a state of depression, despair and death. Despite the huge borrowing, the infrastructural deficit in Nigeria today is beyond redemption.” Ibrahim further noted that apart from the recent CBN’s policy that has taken Nigerians back to serious poverty, fuel hike and other national issues have become worrisome. He continued: “If anything untoward happens to our democracy, the National Assembly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Political Parties will be the most hit as have happened in our not too distant history. We must therefore be wary. “In the same vein, our position, advocacy and projections are firmly based on a government of national unity, collegiate and translational leadership which we believe this alliance will highly benefit from. “As we look forward to a victorious election come Saturday, 25th of February 2023, we encourage every Nigerian to go out massively to vote Obi-Datti for President and Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” On his part, governorship candidate of ADC in Abia State, Chief Sunday Onuoha, said Obi has the capacity to enthrone good governance and accountable stewardship in the country. Also present at the endorsement ceremony were the national chairman of the party, chief Ralph Nwosu, representatives of the ADC candidates angling for various seats across the country and hundreds of Obi-Datti supporters. In a related development, former presidential candidates and 24 former national chairmen of political parties came together to strictly examine and evaluate the records of all the presidential candidates in the race for the presidency.