The Kaduna Zone-One senatorial candidate under the platform of the People’s Redemption Party (PRP), Hon Ahmad Abdullahi Wakili, has challenged the federal government to find a quick solution to the lingering fuel and Naira scarcity inflicting pains on the common Nigerians. The PRP senatorial, in a statement issued to journalists, insisted that it was wrong for the president to sit in his comfort zone and put the blames of fuel scarcity at the doorsteps of marketers, while Nigerians continue to suffer untold hardship. He said, “Fuel scarcity, today, has become a commonplace in most parts of the country, workers and the Nigeria people have experienced excessive hardship, trauma and severe economic hardship with incoherent excuses from the marketers and persistent inaction from the federal government agencies responsible to address the situation. “The scarcity of the product and long hours at the fuel stations in queues have clearly slowed down both the public and private sectors productivity, hence, production within the economy.” “Some Nigerians are viewing the situation as a deliberate act aimed at diverting the attention of the general public from the conspicuous failures of the current administration, by deliberately inflicting unbearable hardship to the common man. “The products are currently being hoarded by marketers to enable them to skyrocket the price which is now on a fast lane of N300 to N500. Per litre, hence, making the possibility of increment obvious. “Assurance by the president is that the petroleum sector should be managed by men of integrity, with his name appearing first on the list; thereby giving him the virtue to cling to the seat of Nigeria’s Minister of Petroleum. However, from what is happening in the sector, presently, does virtue speak? “It is now evidently clear that, the current tirade and buck passing between government and marketers indicate a deliberate attempt to continue to inflict hardship on Nigerians so as to, not only divert attention, but to equally justify outrageous increase in the fuel price, unconditionally, for reasons Nigerians are yet to fully understand and accept. Especially, when looking at the recent commercialization of the NNPC to NNPCL and privatisation of other parts of the sector to alleged proxies.” He also called on the civil society organisations, Labour Unions and well meaning Nigerians to come out and protest the current unbearable hardship the scarcity is inflicting on them. “It is bad enough that our country have to be importing the product it produces and export, equally scandalous that the APC led government have woefully failed in its promise of establishing refinnaries, as well as, fixing the existing ones. “We still believe the government can do better by immediately bringing supplies of these products to its normal status as the situation is putting Nigerians in unbearable hardship if it persists. “Essentially, Nigerians have reasons to continue to hold the APC led federal government responsible for the fuel scarcity, hence, the glaring associate hardship and not marketers, as we elected the leaders, but we don’t elect Petroleum marketers; the President and Minister Of Petroleum must take full responsibility for the fuel scarcity and take decisive action to curb the menace and restore normalcy,” he said. 