There is a thin line between music and movies.Both of these arms of the entertainment industry are very similar.While music deals with fictional or real life experiences through rhythms,beats and lyrics,movies does similar things through acting. Over the years, various Nigerian music stars have made the transition from the studio to the set.In this piece LEADERSHIP Sunday takes a look at 10 Nigerian musicians who ventured into Nollywood.  One half of famous Nigerian music duo,Peter Okoye, of P-Square, recently made his acting debut in the hit Netflix series ‘Shanty Town’.He played the character of Femi.A cross section of fans say played the role well.  Nigerian rapper, Tobechukwu Ejiofor, aka Illbliss, starred in Kemi Adetiba’s movie series, King of Boys, where he played the character of  ‘Odogwu Malay’,to rave reviews.King of Boys is a political thriller that chronicles the life of Alhaja Eniola Salami, a businesswoman, philanthropist, and ruthless lord of the underworld whose thirst for power almost led to her ruin.  Nigerian music star Davido, having become a house hold name in the music industry, also ventured into acting,with a few appearance to his name.He featured in Fate of Alakada,Legend at Sixty,and featured most recently in the Hollywood movie, Coming 2 America.  4 Falz Nigerian rapper, Falz is no doubt a multi talented individual.Apart from being a good rapper,Falz has featured in some movies where he  performed creditably.He had starred in New Money, Quam’s Money,Chief Daddy,and played a role in Funke Akindele’s hit comedy series,”Jenifa’s Diary.”  Nigerian singer, Omawumi Megbele made her acting debut in 2013,in the new Yvonne Nelson produced movie ‘House of Gold”, the movie featured the likes of Ghollywood stars,Majid Michael and Francis Odega.Omawumi and Nigerian singer Waje,own a movie production and media company Hermanes media, that specializes in film and TV.She has featured in other movies such as Night Bus to Lagos, Oloture, and House of Gold.  Nigerian rapper Reminisce, portrayed Makanaki in the film directed and produced by Kemi Adetuba.The movie is one of the highest-grossing Nollywood films of all time.  Nigerian singer Chidinma is another darling singer who decided to try a shot at acting. She starred in Kunle Afolayan’s 2017 movie The Bridge which is now available to stream on Netflix.  Nigerian singer Bankole Wellington, popularly known as Banky W,who has also tried his hands in acting.He has acted in a number of blockbuster Nigerian movies including Sugar Rush, The Wedding Party, and Up North.  Nigerian singer Yemi Alade made her official debut as an actress in the short film for “Home”; a single lifted off her critically acclaimed fourth studio album “Woman of Steel”, which garnered over 1 million streams on Spotify in a week.The emotive film captures the essence of finding strength, self-love and being your own hero in tough times; boasting stellar performances from the cast and powerful screenplay. “Home” is directed by Clarence A. Peters and stars Nollywood icon Clarion Chukwura alongside talented heartthrob Frankincense Eche Ben. She also made an appearance in the blockbuster Nollywood movie Omo Ghetto (The Saga).  Nigerian Singer Waje made her acting debut in the 2014 film Tunnel, alongside Femi Jacobs, Patrick Doyle, Nse Ikpe-Etim and Lepacious Bose. Directed by Stanlee Ohikhuare, the film is centred around a young pastor’s life.In January 2019, Waje and Omawumi launched Hermanes Media, a media company that specializes in film and TV production.In April 2019, Waje was featured in the Somkele Idhalama-produced movie “She Is”  