The Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) was established to address this problem and promote wealth creation in Lagos. Through the Lagos Innovates Programme, Honeywell Group and Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF),  77 beneficiaries have graduated from Cohort A of the initiative. The programme was meant to tackle unemployment and give young people in the state the opportunity to lead better lives. In a partnership spanning three years, Honeywell Group, as part of its commitment to fostering economic growth and development, has contributed to youth employment. By providing access to mentorship and hands-on training opportunities, the training, which began in September 2022 with 77 beneficiaries selected from a pool of 1,000 applicants, was facilitated by one of Lagos Innovates training partners, Dataleum. Beneficiaries were taken through a rigorous 4-month training exercise where they were exposed to data analytics training, soft skills training, stimulated interview sessions,  and other job preparation activities. The graduation ceremony, which held on Friday, February 3, 2023 in Ikeja, Lagos, doubled as a career fair, where recruiters were present to interview beneficiaries. An excited beneficiary of the programme, Favour  Adebayo, described the programme as what she needed to change her life and thanked Honeywell Group, LSETF and Dataleum, the training partner. She said: “the talent development programme was transformational. The programme gave me direction and more opportunities. From acquiring soft skills I didn’t know I lacked to intense hands-on practice, I am convinced that the only way from here is up!” Commenting on the occasion, Honeywell Group’s head, Corporate Services, Tomi Otudeko said:  “we are proud of these beneficiaries who have worked tirelessly throughout the rigorous programme, and it has been a delight to see their faces light up. More importantly, we are encouraged by the impact this training has had on their lives and how it will cascade down to 77 communities across the state.” Lagos Innovates’ head, Startups, Hakeem Onasanya, said: “one of the major highlights of this initiative, aside from the number of young people we are able to support, is hearing about its impact from the beneficiaries. “I applaud the graduates for their commitment to the programme, and we are optimistic that the graduates will go on to do astounding work in their new career path and in service to Lagos State.” While cohorts B and C are set to begin soon with other training partners, members of the public are encouraged to apply for the next selection round.