Telecommunications giant MTN Nigeria, is once again empowering Nigerians through premium entertainment.From platforms like MTN Project Fame to Y’ello Star and now the recently commenced Family Feud Nigeria, the technology company has not spared costs or creativity in powering initiatives that change the lives of participating and viewing Nigerians. October 7th, 2022, marked another watershed moment in the entertainment industry as MTN Nigeria, in partnership with Ultima Studios, premiered the Nigerian edition of the world-famous Family Feud game show. Family Feud is an internationally acclaimed game show that first aired in the United States of America in 1976. Today, it’s the 3rd most popular game show in the world and is enjoyed by families across 45 countries- now including Nigeria. Hosted by the vibrant actor Bisola Aiyeola, Family Feud Nigeria is a phenomenal addition to the lineup of family entertainment as each participating family stands a chance to win as much as 2.5 million naira and being on television allows them to showcase their personalities. Nigerians are vibrant people. From the colours of our traditional fabrics and the boldness of the attires to the complexity of native names and pidgin labels ascribed to everyday phenomena, Family Feud Nigeria is a platform for showcasing what makes Nigerians interesting without a script. The show has featured families with creative intros and fashionable attires that make them more memorable. Family Feud Nigeria is a television game show in which two families compete to name the most popular answers to survey questions in order to win cash and prizes.
The popular TV game show was first broadcast in the U.S.A in 1976 and has seen several adaptations in more than 50 countries, the latest being Nigeria. “One of the things that keep families together is shared activity, and whether it is competing on ‘Family Feud’ or watching weekly episodes, the show will give people another avenue to bond. It will be informative, provide comic relief and showcase the personalities of different families across generations.
It will be exciting to watch.” A’isha Umar Mumuni, Chief Digital Officer, MTN Nigeria, said at the unveiling. According to her, the show promises hilarious and inclusive entertainment as it showcases a diverse range of Nigerian families in a battle to win cash prizes. She disclosed further that each show will feature two ‘families’ of five going head-to-head as they try to guess the most popular responses to a series of survey questions, with a uniquely Nigerian twist, posed to 100 people. Femi Ayeni, the Chief Executive Officer, Ultima Studios, said that ‘Family Feud’ is a relaxing game show with a healthy dose of humour and laughter, which is sure to refresh and reconnect families and friends while also rewarding them as they play and win cash, and other prizes. “The show is made even more interesting because the five participants in each family can be made up of nuclear family members, friends from work, neighbours, old boys or old girls of schools and almost any relationship which binds us together in a community. The families will be able to play to win up to N5million and every family member can become a millionaire courtesy of our lead sponsors – MTN,” Ayeni said. Bisola Aiyeola, the host of the show disclosed that the journey towards ‘Family Feud Nigeria’ started in 2019, and that she is thrilled to be hosting the show. “It’s a show I have come to love, and I look forward to sharing the experience with families across Nigeria. The questions are hilarious and when you mix that with our unique Nigerian humour, expect non-stop laughter. It’s more than just asking questions. Part of the fun is revealing their unique personalities to further engage with the families”. Since Family Feud Nigeria premiered in Nigeria in October 2022, the show has been packed with some of the most entertaining family and friends as they provide unexpected answers to survey questions on relatable Nigerian topics. As crazy as the survey answers are, the energy displayed by the families is even more hilarious as they try to guess the correct answers on the board. With N2.5 million at stake for the winning family, here are many reasons you should watch Bisola Aiyeola and many more dramatic families on Family Feud Nigeria. Family Feud Nigeria survey questions are ridiculous and they highlight the most unserious events in everyday life. So it’s no surprise that there are as many ridiculous answers from the participating families. The final round of the game is called ‘Fast Money’. For that round, the winning family has to play a rapid-fire question game that earns them at least the ₦2.5 million cash prize. Watching this round would have you at the edge of your seat screaming and maybe cussing out your favourite family for saying the wrong answer. Game shows like Family Feud Nigeria boost the dopamine of those participating and give the audience a sense of happiness when they see other people win. Besides the television game show, Nigerians can win with Family Feud Nigeria by answering Family Feud-style questions on digital gameplay. This means that with minimal effort, Nigerians can have fun and be one of the ten people to win 10,000 or 20,000 daily—the journey to winning begins by texting DFF to 205. MTN Nigeria remains committed to providing Nigerians with versatile ways to improve their lives, and entertainment is crucial. Including the opportunity to win cash prizes makes it more exciting for the subscribers. Family Feud Nigeria airs premiere episodes on Dstv and GoTV’s Africa Magic Family and Africa Magic Urban from 9:00 – 10:00p.m on Fridays and 4:30 – 5:30p.m on Saturdays, with reruns on Tuesdays and Thursdays.