The Labour Party (LP) House of Representatives candidate in Amuwo-Odofin federal constituency of Lagos State, Otunba George Adegeye, has promised qualitative representation if elected to represent the people of the constituency.  Adegeye, who gave the assurance on Saturday at his electioneering campaign rally held across Amuwo-Odofin federal constituency, added that his pact with the people remained intact and he has deliberated on how to render a better representation to the people if elected.  According him, he was raised within the community and he was aware of the challenges facing the community, hence it was incumbent on him to ensure a greater Amuwo-Odofin federal constituency.  The House of Representatives hopeful said: “I can assure you that you won’t regret it, vote Peter Obi for president, Folarin Adegeye for the Federal House of Representatives, vote Labour Party, Labour!, Labour!!, Labour!!! All the way.  “They have done it before, they failed the first time, second time and third time, let’s try another party.  “I was raised in this Mile 2 Estate, so my antecedents are well known to many here, unlike those who don’t have root here, ask them where exactly their parent house is located here in Amuwo-Odofin or Oriade? They cannot point to any particular location.  “Tell them no, no to somebody from America. Ikorodu and now Amuwo-Odofin, are we fools? No, we are not.  “My mother, late Hon. Risikat Ajoke Adegeye while in the House of Assembly till year 2007 lifted a lot of people from their lowest ebb to a better state, so it is somewhat innate in me to ensure the welfare of the people.  “I run a business outfit where I have 125 staff strength, it is doing great, so my venturing into politics is not for pecuniary reasons, but a will to serve.  “I lost my mother in 2020, you all know how passionate she was about Amuwo-Odofin’s development.  “Your security is assured, they can’t do nothing, we are fully on ground, tell them we are taking over Amuwo-Odofin,” Adegeye reiterated.