A leading financial services group, Norrenberger, has enlightened winners of its 2022 Fitlife Event and other participants on financial planning, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The group sensitised the winners during a ‘Meet & Greet with the 2022 Norrenberger Abuja Fitlife Winners,’ held in Abuja, at the weekend. Norrenberger had earlier hosted fitness enthusiasts and dignitaries at Norrenberger Abuja Fitlife 2022 by partnering with Bodyline Fitness and Gym to host its 3rd Annual Event on December 3, 2022. The event brought together over 1, 500 participants and about 3,000 registrants to one location for a premium fitness and fun experience with an opportunity to network with the broader fitness community and financial advisors. It was also an opportunity to sensitise the public on the importance of fitness, wellness, health and wealth. The event featured fun and entertaining fitness activities and competitions including a half marathon, Abuja Fittest challenge and Abuja Strongest challenge in male and female categories. Winners in these categories went home with a total cumulative cash prize of N40million. Speaking at the Meet and Greet event held over the weekend, the group Chief Finance Officer (CFO), Norrenberger, Nkiru Chime, explained that, as a financial organisation, the firm is always looking for initiatives and avenues to make impact on their teams, clients and the community. She said: “we partnered with Bodyline Fitness and Gym to host its 3rd Annual Event. We found Bodyline to be a reputable potential partner with the same impact goals, on the health scale, and immediately moved to establish the mutually, and communally beneficial partnership, bringing health and wealth together. “We rallied the Abuja fitness and even the non-fitness communities together for a day of fun, music, family and fitness. As a long-term partnership, we are looking forward to more. We will deliver a bigger fitness festival this year and announce new ways to reach more people with our joint, timely message that health is wealth. Promising that her firm will help more Nigerians on their way to growing their funds and imbibing a healthy lifestyle, she added that, one of the group’s strategic plan is to deepen financial inclusion in the country. One of the winners, Shaibu Shehu appreciated Norrenberger for the opportunity and hopes that the group will continue and get bigger by sponsoring them to represent the country globally. Norrenberger is an Integrated Financial Services group offering Asset Management, Investment Banking, Pensions, Insurance and Securities trading services.