A former minister of cooperation and integration in Africa, Chief Abimbola Ogunkelu, Lagos State chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Philip Aivodji; former state chairman of the party,Captain Tunji Selleh, among others have urged the electorate to vote for the party’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar on Saturday.
The party’s chieftains who said this at the PDP State General Assembly which took place at the party secretariat in Lagos urged Nigerians to come out en masse to vote for Atiku and should not allow anybody to scare them from exercising their civic right.
At the event, members of the party’s state executive council received members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) led by its South-West coordinator, Comrade Olusola Akingbola and were given the PDP flags as members.
Also at the assembly were leaders of Youth Grassroots Movement (YGM), Hon. Oluwadare Oyebamiji; Dr. Ayodele Elegbeleye of NYSM and Ahmed Yahaya Bello (WAZOBIA) they described Atiku as the most qualified among those in the presidential race, saying he would rescue the country from going into perfidy if voted into office as next president of Nigeria. Ogunkelu, who is also member, Board of Trustees of PDP, applauded the commitment and determination of chieftains and members of the party to work for Atiku success. He declared pointedly that Alhaji Atiku would be voted in on Saturday as next president of the country, appealing to Nigerians to vote with their index fingers to make their votes count. The party chieftain, while making the call, noted that Nigerians were currently in pains economically, among others, saying that was not the situation during 16 years when the PDP was in power, between 1999 and 2015. According to him, under PDP rule, Nigeria’s economy was adjudged as the fastest growing in Africa, but noted that the country’s economy was now in a shamble and the education sector was in worst state, “our children were out of schools for eight months. 