Spokesperson of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Ideato North/South federal constituency election in Imo State, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, has accused Governor Hope Uzodimma of mocking and celebrating the killings that happened in his Akokwa country home on January 14, 2023. He alleged that in his glee and celebration of the attack, the governor and the Government Of Imo State till date were yet to condemn the attack and the gruesome killing of innocent citizens of the State. Ugochinyere, who spoke on Wednesday at a press conference in Abuja, described the attitude of Governor Uzodimma as ‘very curious’ even as he called for investigation into the attack. Imo Under Uzodimma Now A Killing Field – Ugochinyere He said: “In his mixed glee and anger, glee that the attack happened and anger that I did not die, the Governor throughout his speech did not condemn the killings that happened in my house. He did not commiserate with the families of the dead, yet these are citizens he swore to protect their lives. Till today, the Imo State Government has not condemned the attack on my house. This is very curious. “Nigerians however saw a Governor who rushed to the media to try to impede investigations (if any) by dishing out untenable and indefensible narratives to water down the massacre of our people. When the Governor spoke, he made reference to documents in his possession. The questions would then be, did the Governor have a brief of what happened to me even before it happened? What can Hope Uzodimma tell the world that he did with the so-called security report of my so-called meetings with people who wanted to stop elections in South East? Or did he not do anything because he knew the so-called people will come and attack me? So when exactly did the Governor receive this his security report as there is yet no investigation on the terrorist attack on my house?” Ugochinyere maintained that the mockery of the dead by the governor was the height of insensitivity and the attempt by him to divert attention from the real issues of the attack and a clear evidence of his alleged involvement. He, therefore, submitted that any attempt at investigating the matter will very easily expose those behind it and lead to the arrest of all those involved. The PDP candidate in the upcoming 2023 elections also called for the arrest and investigation of an aide to Governor Uzodimma on Special Duties, Mr. Chinasa Nwaneri; the State’s Commissioner for Information, Declan Emelumba, and one Ajangwo, who he claimed celebrated his birthday on Tuesday, January 31, 2023 for their alleged roles in the attack on his house, which claimed four lives and multi-million naira property destroyed.