More accolades have been pouring in for organisers of the annual Sportsville Recognition Awards following a successful ceremony last Saturday in Lagos. The proprietor of Naija Ratels, Paul Edeh, lauded the credibility of the Award, saying he was pleasantly surprised and really elated by his nomination as an awardee as he never saw it coming. “I feel really elated and enjoyed by the honour bestowed on me by the organisers of the SportsVille Awards. Frankly it is an unsolicited award that came to me as a huge surprise. As a matter of fact, I have rejected awards in the past where the organisers sought for pecuniary benefits. All that we have been able to achieve in sports over the years has been done with the right intentions and not in expectations for a reward or award. “So when I was contacted and informed that I was to receive the SportsVille Award along with 15 others, I was surprised. I believe that the organisers may have noticed the series of impacts that we may have made in sports generally and women football specifically over the years. So I count it a rare privilege to be honoured along with other prominent Nigerians who have been in the sports scene far longer than me. “I did a bit of research on the award when I was informed and found that it was an award that genuinely seeks to celebrate and honour Nigerians who have contributed to sports in Nigeria and across the globe. The array of recipients of the 2023 edition of the SportsVille Awards is a testament to the credibility of the awards,” Edeh said. The deputy governor of Edo State, Rt Hon Philip Shaibu and President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Ibrahim Gusau, also joined other stakeholders to commend Sportsville Award organises. “I was excited to hear that the event was highly successful, I say kudos to the Organisers,” Shaibu, who was the special guest of honour for the event but was represented by the former Lagos State Sports Commission Chairman, Dr Kweku Tandoh, said. On his part,NFF President Gusau, who was represented by Aisha Falode also lauded the organisers. “I am happy that people that are supporting the development of sports are being recognised, that will no doubt spur them to do more. All thanks to  Sportsville for spearheading this.” Speaking in the same vein, the Chairman of Interim League Management Committee, Hon Gbenga Elegbeleye, who was among the Special Guests on the night  said the organisers deserve a pat on the back for recognizing credible Nigerians every year. “You guys are doing a very good job, I am happy with the quality of awardees you turn out every year, keep it up.”