A coalition of Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) has rejected calls by the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council for the arrest of the senior pastor of Dunamis Church, Dr. Paul Enenche. The coalition is made up of the Arewa Youths for Peace and Security represented by the Director of Publicity, Salihu Dantata, the vice president of the Pentecostal Association of Nigeria, Sir Chinelo Ojirika, of Salute Nigeria Initiative and other youth organisations. Amb. Phil Roberts, who briefed journalists on Tuesday in Abuja on behalf of the organisations, said they viewed the call for the arrest of Pastor Enenche as an unwarranted threat to his life. According to him, to speak out against electoral malpractices and rigging, should not be taken as public incitement to violence. He said those condemning the widespread irregularities associated with the Saturday’s elections in Nigeria should never be crucified. Roberts added that the truth remains that it is only in justice, equity and fairness that peace can prevail in society because people are naturally bound to agitate once their rights are subverted. He said, “We therefore take the statement by one Dele Alake, Special adviser media and communications for the All Progressive Congress for the arrest of the reverred clergy, Dr Paul Enenche, the Senior Pastor of Dunamis International Gospel Centre, and others as a direct affront on democracy and freedom of speech in this country. “We dismiss the statement as an unwarranted  threat  to his life, as well as a breach of his fundamental human right. “As a free citizen of this country, and a major stakeholder in society, Dr Paul Enenche has the freedom to express his opinions in matters of national importance. Poll Results: APC Campaign Accuses Melaye, Momodu, Pastor Enenche Of Inciting Violence “The church as a critical member of society shares heavily in the burden of bad governance, and is not expected to watch the nation gravitate towards imminent disasters without speaking out. “Moreover, there is a chorus of voices, both locally and internationally decrying widespread violence, rigging and other forms of irregularities that greeted the current elections.” Recall that the International Republican Institute (IRI) and National Democratic Institute (NDI) Joint Election Observation Mission (IEOM), in their joint preliminary statement issued on Monday, 27 February, 2023, had expressed their concerns over INEC’s lack of transparency in the electoral process. “What about elder statesmen Like former president Olusegun Obasanjo who out of deep  concerns for the country, said and I quote, “At this stage, we do not need wittingly or unwittingly, to set this country on fire with the greed, irresponsibility and unpatriotic act of those who allegedly gave money to INEC officials for perversion…” He said again, “Let me appeal to the INEC Chairman, if his hands are clean, to save Nigeria from the looming danger and disaster which is just waiting to happen” should he be arrested too? “What about the statement of condemnation and warning from the NLC to INEC and security personnel? What about the statement from the Labour party that, “A nation at the precipice like ours should not be stoking fires in it’s house filled with dry straws. INEC should not be the one that will strike the match.” Should they be arrested too?”