The executive vice chairman (EVC), Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, has stated that the commission will not relent in bridging the obvious digital gap, and also use all possible ways including competitions to unearth talents that will bring about indigenous solutions that will solve the challenges the country is faced with. The NCC boss said this at the third edition of the annual ICT Innovation Competition and Exhibition, held at the digital bridge institute, Oshodi, Lagos, themed: “Utilizing Indigenous Digital Solutions to Bridge the Digital Divide.” Danbatta who was represented by the Executive Commissioner,  Technical Services, NCC, Engr. Ubale Maska thinks that one of the key challenges that we face in the ICT sector is the lack of locally produced content, and this can be a barrier to the adoption of digital technologies, as it means that users often have to rely on foreign-produced content, which may not always be relevant or appropriate for the local context. He added that ICT sector has the potential to play a significant role in bridging the digital divide and driving economic development in Nigeria. It can do so by providing access to digital technologies and services, fostering innovation and entrepreneurship, and creating Jobs. “ This year’s competition provides a platform for tech enthusiasts and other stakeholders with novel ideas and tech solutions to industry and societal challenges to showcase their creative innovations and forge collaborative partnerships that can stimulate productivity, sustainability, and continuous growth in the ICT sector. He said, the competition is in line with Nigeria’s National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy, specifically pillars 5, 7, and 8, which focus on digital service development and promotion, digital society and emerging technologies, and indigenous content development and adoption, respectively. “In terms of digital service development and promotion, it is important that we support the growth and development of digital businesses in Nigeria. This includes not just tech startups, but also small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and even large corporations that are looking to adopt digital technologies and improve their operations. By providing a platform for these businesses to showcase their innovations and forge partnerships, we can help to stimulate productivity, sustainability, and continuous growth in the ICT sector.” Danbatta concluded by saying funding digital skills building and innovation in Nigeria is critical for ensuring that we have the necessary human capital to drive the growth and development of the ICT sector, this includes not just technical skills, but also business and entrepreneurship skills, as well as a range of other skills that are necessary for success in the digital economy by providing funding for skills building and innovation, we can help to ensure that the ICT sector has the talent it needs to thrive and grow.