The Service Compact with All Nigerians (SERVICON) during the week in Abuja presented an award for Quality and Timely Service Delivery to the chief executive of the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), Engr. Gbenga Komolafe. The Commission, in a statement, yesterday, said the award is in recognition of Engr Komolafe’s sterling leadership as the helmsman of the Commission. It came with a letter of commendation which was presented to the commission chief executive (CCE) by the National Co-ordinator chief executive officer SERVICOM, Mrs Nnenna Akajemeli, at NUPRC head office in Abuja. While accepting the award, the CCE appreciated SERVICOM’s management for the honour and reassured the establishment of the Commission’s commitment to best in class customer service delivery for the overall benefit of its internal and external stakeholders.“ At NUPRC we wish to reassure you of our commitment to innovation and technology which is key to the changing global energy dynamics. We are well aware of the increasing energy demands globally, and its impact on our national economy, as such we have taken deliberate steps to ensure that the Nigerian upstream sector remains competitive in the wake of the clamour for renewables and clearer forms of energy. Such steps can be seen in the recent bid round announced for players in the deep offshore oil and gas space.”Engr. Komolafe also pointed out that the Commission is completely aligned with the Decade of Gas (DoG) and Gas Master plan Policy, as well as the enforcement of Domestic Gas Delivery Obligations of the Federal Government in the Petroleum industry, even as it explores sustainable and efficient ways of exploiting hydrocarbon resources in the wake of these developments.The CCE who observed that work culture in the public service as well as customer service has greatly improved in the last couple of years under Mrs Akajemeli leadership, said he feels greatly honoured and humbled to be recognized as the recipient of the award of “Most Supportive CEO” for the year 2022 from a pool of eight ministries and 19 parastatals under the purview of the “Team B” of the National SERVICOM Office.He saw the award as recognition of the Commission’s collective commitment to best-in-class service delivery, being a proactive 21st century upstream petroleum regulatory agency. “We will remain committed to our excellent service delivery promises and obligations to our internal and external stakeholders as a matter of policy and strategy, to drive revenue generation, job satisfaction for staff and build investors’ confidence in the Nigerian oil and gas industry.”Engr. Komolafe dedicated the award to the staff of the Commission whom he said are at the forefront of providing service to all our stakeholders. The award will serve as a motivation and source of inspiration to do more in service to all stakeholders, he added.