 The government of Kwara state, on Monday, said it will continue its investment in the International Aviation College (IAC), Ilorin. This was disclosed by the governor of Kwara State, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, in Ilorin, during the flag-off of a weeklong training course for the members of the League of Airport and Aviation Correspondents (LAAC), being conducted at the college. Abdulrazaq, who was represented by the commissioner for Tertiary Institution, Dr. Abolore Alabi, said the government was totally committed to the development of the state. He stressed that his government had taken aviation as being pivotal for the development of the state, stressing that, the government just placed orders for items that would further upgrade the school and make it more competitive. According to him, 50 per cent of the orders had already arrived the college, assuring that the school would witness new growth in the new year. Though, Alabi did not mention some of the new orders for the college, but our correspondent learnt that the state government recently placed an order for Diamond 40 aircraft engine, one of the trainee airplanes used by the school and propeller aircraft, which is already at the college’s hangar. Furthermore, the government recently purchased 10,000 litres of Jet A1 for the college, while it also renovated its fuel dump. Alabi noted that, the aviation industry is capital intensive, but insisted the government would not abdicate its duties for the college. He said: “the industry is capital intensive. This is a sector that should be a booster to the economy of the country. We all need to form a synergy that will take this sector to where it should be. We have the continuity of government in Kwara state. “Before the end of this year, there will be some positive news about this college. We have placed orders for additional items for the college. I can tell you that 50 per cent of these equipment have arrived the college already.” Also, the director-general, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Musa Nuhu, in his speech, said aviation industry is dynamic and to keep abreast of latest developments, innovation and trends in the sector, there was the need for continued human capacity development by all players in the sector. He lauded LAAC for its concerted and consistent efforts at providing robust reportage and professional coverage of every development in the industry, which, he said, had aided the growth and development of the aviation industry in Nigeria. He added that, “we, at the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), consider training (including initial, on-the-job and recurrent training) as key component of aviation development in Nigeria. In fact, training and retraining, can be liken to a capital project as it is critical to our operations as the apex regulatory Authority for Civil Aviation. “The authority’s personnel are exposed to appropriate trainings all over the world to enhance and maintain their skills and competence. On the other hand, you will all agree with me that it is a statement of facts, that the media is critical to the growth of global aviation in general and Nigeria in particular.” He appealed to journalists, especially LAAC members, to eschew sensationalism that was capable of putting the aviation sector in bad light and impacting negatively on democracy. Earlier, Ag. rector, IAC, Ilorin, Capt. Okatayi Yakubu, said the training for LAAC members was timely. He said the training would aid correct reports and terminologies for aviation reporters Yakubu however, enjoined journalists to eschew sensational reporting, stressing that, this may further scare away potential air travellers. He assured that the training would be of immense benefits to the participants. Similarly, the chairman, LAAC,  Mr Olusegun Koiki, called on the State government to properly fund the college and make it competitive. He advised the State to remove the college from the apron string of civil service and engage proven professionals that would ensure development in the school. 