 A former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has appealed to Northern leaders, Clerics and youths across the 19 Northern States, to mobilise support for the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, in the Saturday, February 25 election. Frank said the move becomes necessary because other two frontline contenders – Peter Obi and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu – have practically turned the game to ethnic and religious contest, hence the North should not put their son (Atiku) to shame during the election. In a statement released Thursday in Abuja, Frank, who is the United Liberation Movement for West Papua (ULMWP) Ambassador to East Africa and Middle East, said one of the candidates has visited nearly all the Churches with various Pastors openly endorsing him while the other has been playing ethnic politics of ‘Emi L’okan’ (It is my turn), hence the need for the Northern leaders and Clerics to speak the truth to their followers as they go to Mosque on Friday. He said: “It is very important at this point in time for the Northern elders, Clerics and the youths not to sit on the fence but rally round Atiku Abubakar like some Yoruba leaders, faction of Afenifere and PANDEF have done to Peter Obi and Bola Tinubu based on religion and ethnic factors.” “We have seen some Southern leaders like Chief Adebanjo openly threatening war if a Southerner do not win this election. Again, the activities of the five Southern Governors who are all Christians are part of the plot against the North which must be resisted if Nigeria will continue as one. “It is obvious that both Bola Tinubu and Peter Obi are ethnic champions. They have obviously ran ethnic and religion campaigns in such a way that place the North at the disadvantage if either of them win this election. “As a true Southner, I believe in one Nigeria and strongly believe too that only candidate that can unify Nigeria and make her remain as one is Atiku Abubakar, who already has a Blueprint and determination to restructure Nigeria in such a way that will benefit the North, West, East and South. “I am, however, calling on Norther elders and other organisations in the North to take a bold step by publicly endorsing Atiku as Souther Pastors and other groups have endorsed Peter Obi and Bola Tinubu. “I also appeal to the North to forget about their party affiliations at this moment and come together as one behind Atiku Abubakar who is obviously different from other two ethnic and religious bigots,” Frank said. He also called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to renege on their promises to deliver a free, fair and credible election. Frank claimed that “if Bola Ahmed Tinubu emerge the next President, those around President Muhammadu Buhari and other Northern leaders will be the first set of casualties because we have seen how supporters of Tinubu already coming out to call the President names. For example, former governor of Edo state, Adams Oshiomhole, Governor Nasir El-rufai, among others have recently said Buhari will soon expire once Bola Tinubu wins the election.”