A fresh poll by Nextier SPD, an African-based international development consulting firm, shows the Labour Party leading with 37 percent followed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with 27 percent and the All Progressives Congress (APC) with 24 percent. According to the most recent Nextier Poll, Obi has the greatest net favourability among the leading presidential contenders, placing him ahead of his closest rivals, PDP’s Atiku Abubakar and APC’s Bola Tinubu. The poll, released on Saturday, February 5, 2023, is the second national face-to-face survey conducted by Nextier SPD and shows that a significant percentage of registered voters, 72% have chosen their presidential candidate. At the same time, among the major political parties, the Labour Party has the greatest net favourability. According to the firm’s website, Nextier SPD, employs evidence-based research and policy to create and strengthen knowledge and skills for managing society. The report added, “On Friday, January 27, 2023, Nextier used 144 enumerators to poll 3,000 respondents in all states in Nigeria. “The enumerators conducted the polls in both urban and rural communities. “The polls were conducted face-to-face and represented the age and gender demographics in each state of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory. “Only registered voters who have collected their Permanent Voters Cards were polled. Meanwhile, Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has protested result of presidential election poll conducted by Nextier which favoured his Labour Party (LP) counterpart, Peter Obi, as the preferred choice of the electorate in the six states of South West. The former Lagos State governor described the poll as ludicrous, farcical and a “wishful thinking without any basis in fact and reality.” Peter Obi Says He’ll Stop Sharing Of Govt Money, Make Nigeria Productive If Elected Tinubu who spoke through the director, Media and Publicity of the APC presidential campaign council, Bayo Onanuga, alleged that the pollster, Nestlier, was working for Obi. In a statement issued on Sunday night, Tinubu maintained that Nextier and its promoters are members of Obi’s campaign team. The statement by Onanuga stated: “It is quite ludicrous that Nextier Poll that projects a clean sweep of the South East Region at over 90% of registered votes also puts Peter Obi ahead of APC Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the six South West States including Lagos. “Assuming without absolutely conceding that Peter Obi will enjoy home advantage in his part of the country, we then wonder why the pollsters at Nextier, if they have any modicum of respect for the intellect of Nigerians, thought the factors that will propel landslide victory for Obi in South east will not work for the APC candidate in his own South West base.