Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the leadership of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) has debunked rumour making the rounds in several quarters especially on social media platforms that it has endorsed the Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi. PFN National Publicity Secretary, Bishop Dr. Gospel Emmah Isong, made the rebuttal while reacting to the rumour in a telephone interview with LEADERSHIP at the ongoing 17th Biennial conference of the PFN in Bayelsa State on Friday. “I want you to know that nothing like that has happened in the history of the PFN. We have not endorse any political party or any presidential candidate, rather what we have ongoing is the 17th Biennial Conference of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), titled, ‘More Than Conquerors’, currently ongoing in Bayelsa State.” He stressed that the conference was an avenue for all Christians especially those in power to come in and fellowship with the organization, adding that no endorsement of any political office seeker was made at the conference. Isong stated that the rumour was nothing but fake news, calling on well-meaning Nigerians to shun such news that may had gone viral on social media platforms and in some quarters probably to rubbish and drag the good image of PFN to disrepute. “We coincidentally had vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, His Excellency former governor Mr. Peter Obi, they came in same day to fellowship with us. “And at no point did the National President, His Eminence Bishop Dr. Wale Oke, nor fathers of faith of NEC endorse any presidential candidate or political party. That has not happen. I believe whatever you have read regarding that issue is junk and fake news,” he reiterated. PFN, therefore, called on the 60 million Christians in Nigeria to look into the profile of the presidential candidates and vote according to their conscience, stressing that PFN would not and cannot force any Christian to vote a particular candidate. The PFN National Publicity Secretary urged all followers and supporters of political parties to stop media frenzy and halt the use of social media to vote for their candidates, adding that “Political campaigns is beyond social media”. He said that PFN is not partisan, stressing that it was aware that its members belong to different political parties, therefore, it cannot make the mistake of endorsement at this point. “Today we are expecting the Executive Secretary, Nigeria Christians Pilgrims Commission, in the person of Dr. Yakubu Pam, coming to fellowship and pray with us for the good of this nation. “We have not yet and never will we endorse any political candidate for the 2023 elections. We asked our members to pray and wait for the Lord and vote according to their conscience,” the PFN spokesman maintained.