The Cross River state Aviation commissioner Prof. Jake Otu Enyia has decried  the soured relationship that currently exists between the administration of Prof Ben Ayade and Aero Contractors (managers of Cally Air) over the management of the state aircrafts deal. Enyia made the remarks while speaking with journalists in Calabar, the state capital, yesterday. He confirmed that the administration was not in charge of the management, and control of  revenue of the state owned airline branded as Cally Air. The  pioneering  Aviation Commissioner since it’s creation in 2019, stated that  lacked of Aviation Operation Certification AOC and and fulfilment of certain conditions given by  the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority(NCAA) has made it  difficult for the state  to run an independent airline. He stressed that the aforementioned factors makes it difficult for state government to operate an adding that it’s the reason why state government decided to  enter into  a tripartite agreement with Aero Contractors to enable the Aero manage the airline for the state. Enyia averred that the state government decided to engage the services of a consultant who is at a moment hand joined forces with Aero contractors to manage Cally Air. “Our constraint is that, we are not totally in charge of the day-to-day management of the running of our airline, arising from the fact that we are yet to have our own Air Operator’s Certificate (AOC) from NCAA. “The AOC is the requirement from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), for you to run an airline business, you must possess that Certification. “That directive was given to us not quite long, and we are Set out to make sure we procure the 3rd aircraft for Cross River, to enable us have the AOC and establish an airline for Cross River state. That is what we are about to do. “Immediately we have that, we will definitely operated the airline on our own. what we have as a challenge, was that we didn’t know from the beginning that for us to have the AOC we need a third Aircraft,” The Commissioner maintained. Enyia however regretted that the agreement with Aero Contractors isn’t honoured as the state is currently having a soured working relationship with Aero Contractors over the agreement reached. “Today Cally Air is been managed by Aero Contractors of Nigeria on a basic agreement, because they have the AOC, which we must have, we must be authorized by NCAA that gives that certificate and you must have at least 3 aircrafts in your fleet before you Merit that Certification. Cally Air is under Cally Air Investment Limited. “When we have an AOC, our intention is that we will be able to put up a management team  and a board for the airline. We have a tripartite agreement with Aero Contractor, a consultant and the Cross River state government. “Everyday, as we run the aircraft,  we have  percentages of the proceeds shared amongst Aero Contractors, the consultant and the Cross River State Government. We have been generating revenue no doubt, even though we are not enjoying the best of relationship with Aero. 