The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has decorated no fewer than 60 of its officers who were promoted to the next rank at the Zonal and State Sector Command levels in Rivers State. Speaking during the event, the Zonal Commander, Jonathan Owoade, an Assistant Corps Marshal (ACM), who said the promotion was an elevation to more responsibilities, advised the newly promoted officers to deliver on their assigned jobs. Owoade said: “As you are promoted, it is an elevation of one’s career. It is a good thing that happens to anybody. It is not a good thing that you work round the clock year in year out and you are not promoted. Nobody appreciates you; it is just like you are moving round the sand. It is more or less like a horse. “But when you have reason to move forward, you rejoice and your family rejoice too. It attracts more money, it attracts more responsibility, it attracts career fulfilment. “So, it is a good thing. To whom much is given, much is expected. Now that they have been promoted to the next rank, a higher responsibility will be placed on them. “We expect them to deliver on the assignments that will be given to them. It is going to be a higher assignment and not the usual ones they had been doing. The promotion comes with additional responsibility.” Also speaking, the Rivers State Sector Commander, Salisu Galandunci, urged those promoted to work accordingly with their ranks and advised those who are yet to be promoted to get up. Galandunci said: “In this sector that comprises of Eleme, Ahoada, Bonny, Bori and Isiokpo, all together, we got almost 60 officers that got promoted. All of them are good and the staff have put in their best. “It is a beginning of new thing because they will be given more responsibility. Each one that gets promoted is an added responsibility. They should know that to whom much is given, much is expected.” On her part, spokesperson of the Command, Julie Eni, who was among those promoted and decorated, commended the FRSC and assured that their promotion will spur them to be excellent in their work.