Two weeks to the February 25, 2023 general elections, the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) Senatorial candidate in Edo Central, Okoduwa Akhigbe, on Friday, promised to strengthen the institution of political governance if elected to the Senate. He also posited that the NNPP was the only party poised to bring the dividend of democracy to the people. He said part of the cardinal objectives of his manifesto for the people of his senatorial district was also to create a geographical identity and upscale robust legislation and representation for their benefit. The young candidate and trained economist also took a swipe at the two major political parties for allegedly bringing poverty, underdevelopment, deprivation and hopelessness to the land and called on the Nigerian masses to come out enmasse and queue behind the NNPP presidential candidate, Rabiu Kwankwaso, to emerge the next president of Nigeria. Okoduwa, who spoke to journalists after the party flagged off its campaign in the South-South geo-political zone in Benin City, Edo State, also expressed optimism that the people of Edo Central senatorial district and Nigerians were yearning for change. “It has been an interesting journey on the campaign train and one significant thing we have noticed is that there is this yearning for a different kind of approach to governance and government. “One thing that is very clear is that the people of Edo Central senatorial district are fed up with the experience they have had over the years. So, there is genuine yearning for positive change and that is what we are going to deliver under the platform of the NNPP because the Nigerian people are not happy with what is going on in the country today. “If we genuinely want to ask ourselves, forget about opinion polls, who will really want to vote for the APC? The PDP was voted out because they were not doing well. Nobody wants to vote for the parties that have failed them. “NNPP is the party that has the new template on a mission to rescue Nigeria and deliver the vision of our founding fathers, which is what we all desire. “If you look at the pillars of our manifestos, they are hinged on three pillars of building capacities, strengthening institutions and creating a geographical identification for the people of Edo Central and upscale legislation and representation. “From what we have had before and not just going to Abuja to warm seats, it should be about going to the parliament and being a member of the National Assembly that can provide capacity enhancement in terms of capacity building. I will strengthen the institution of governance both traditional and political to create positive relevance in the society,” he stated.