 The federal government has  unveiled a Diplomatic  Duty -Free Village in Abuja  in line with the United Nations Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which was domesticated by  Nigeria in 1961, through the diplomatic immunities and privileges act of December 1962. This statutes make it possible for the  exemption of diplomats from all duties and taxes, whether national, regional or municipal. Minister of Finance Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed in her remarks during the launch said “Specifically, the diplomatic immunities and privileges act of 1962 empowers the Ministry of Finance to exempt diplomats from all taxes including duty free shopping facilities in several countries, such as South Africa, Ghana, Tanzania, Kenya, most of the EU countries and a few others, in line with government’s responsibilities to ensure the physical security of people much in our country.” Ahmed noted  that the facility is only for diplomats and members of their household adding that the facility became important to ensure coordination of imports for the diplomats. The village she said is for “strict control or cessation of individual requests for waivers on imported items by diplomas which presently, is largely uncoordinated and originated. She also said that the duty -free facility will enable government to maintain a database of products. The minister of state, Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada in his reaction, said the facility will help in reducing the level of shipment by various diplomats as the facilty, which is a one-stop shopping village will take care of all the needs of the diplomats in Abuja. He also assured members of the  diplomatic community of their safety saying that the government will provide adequate security at the village. He said, “No doubt the services provided by the duty -free facility will drastically reduce the volume of diplomatic shipments into the country. “It is my hope that the services of the duty free facility will further provide an additional platform and opportunity for members of the diplomatic community to enjoy this dividend in our country. I understand that the facility has different interesting and top notch sections ranging from shopping centre, recreational services, spa, eye centre, restaurants and others. “The federal government of Nigeria has so far demonstrated its commitment towards ensuring the success of the duty free facility by giving the needed support for each operation, which will by no small measure contribute immensely to the economic growth of Nigeria,” Zubairu said. The managing director of the Diplomatic Village, Uche Odozor said that the project which started since 2010 will meet the needs of the diplomats in accordance to the Vienna convention. He said “We have within this facility a wellness and fitness centre comprising of a spa for those who enjoy wellness and beauty if you go around this country and this city, you will find nothing like these within these premises. “We also have laundry services person wants to do yoga, but we also have above all, our diplomatic village clinic.” 