  Following the media premiere of Ant-Man & The Wasp: Quantumania on Rotten Tomatoes movie critics poll indicates that while many found the plot messy, with too much going on, they all loved Jona  than Majors portrayal of the Marvel Cinematic Universe villain Kang The Conqueror. “Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania kicks off Marvel’s Phase Five with a vivid but messy spectacle … The overall film is sadly just okay,” Simon Thompson, The Playlist. “As soon as Jonathan Majors comes in, it’s his show. Kang is a scary lean mean multiverse big baddie,” said Fico Cangiano of CineXpress. “Jonathan Majors stands out strongly. Kang elevates the whole film. Majors and Paul Rudd are intense together,” writes ComicBok.com’s Brandon Davis. For CNET’s Sean Keane, “Jonathan Majors’ Kang is a charismatic, intense baddy and visually awesome. But the threat he represents is too abstract.” “Not everything lands, but its funny, inventive and a good time. An enjoyable, bizzarro ride into the quantum realm,” Daniel Howat, Next Best Picture. Critics also found the CGI and the other-world building effects fantastic and well-done, and described it as giving more Star Wars-y vibe than a handful of the some of the more recent Star Wars movies. The Wrap Drew Taylor says, describes the film’s visual effect as “an out-of-this-world (inside-this world?) romp that is mostly a testament to the tireless work of countless VFX artists around the world. “The CGI was stunning. The Quantum Realm is seriously beautiful,” said The Nerds of Colour, Laura Sirikul. But it seemed that the film sacrificed a lot on visuals than the plot which most of the critics find very difficult to emotionally connect, thereby causing the film to lack heart, hence not much humour. Feels almost a little un-Marvel in how much world-building there is. But it’s got humour, heart,” said Germaine Lussier of io9.com. “The story was a bit underwhelming … the humor was good,” said Sirikul. “After a frustratingly rough act 1, Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania finally gets going, only to end where this story should have begun, said Fresh Fiction’s Courtney Howard. Playlist’s Thompson believe the plot never quite found its footing and relied largely on style over substance, “the quality never matching the confidence. Generally, though, they are hopeful that the film sets up a good ground for the launch of the fifth installment of the MCU multiverse. “It’s a strong start to Marvel Phase 5,” said Steve Weintraub of Collider. “Can’t wait to see more from Kang,” said Howat “(There’s) so much NEW that locked me back into the MCU. Get excited,” said Schmoes Know Mark Ellis. Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania will premiere globally on February 17, 2023.