LG Electronics has launched washing machines with features that include AI technology, Wi-Fi connectivity, antimicrobial capabilities, super speed, a bevy of wash cycle options and more. The company said in a statement that compared to a conventional wash cycle, LG washing machines’ Artificial Intelligence Direct Drive (AI DD™) technology offers 18% more fabric protection for your clothing. ‘‘It’s a remarkable outcome made achievable by AI’s capacity to recognize how delicate the materials being washed are. Because AI DD™ automatically recognizes which items to treat delicately and adapts the wash/rinse/spin technique accordingly, you don’t need to manually change the wash programme,’’ the statement read. ‘‘It’s fair to state that washing machines have advanced significantly. Compared to earlier models, they are now far more energy and water efficient. No matter how much or how little laundry was in the drum, earlier types of washing machines utilized the same amount of water, energy, and time to clean it. ‘‘Three kilogrammes of denim or one kilogramme of lingerie would both receive the same wash procedure. Modern washing machines can adjust each cycle to the kind of cloth and weight of your laundry thanks to new technology”, said Mr. Brian Kang, General Manager, Home Appliances Division, LG Electronics West Africa. “LG washing machines boast a range of high-performance functions from reducing allergens to care programmes designed to help extend the life of your clothing. An LG washing machine will make your life smoother and easier. Our recent washing machines can save you time, energy and water. Our intelligent laundry technologies will help make wash day more of a pleasure than a chore”. “LG technology takes advantage of in-machine intelligence and knows exactly how to handle your clothing with care. Before starting to add water, the washing machine weighs the load of laundry. As clothing is introduced into the drum, sensors begin to operate and compare the textures of the clothing to pre-programmed data gleaned from the analysis of more than 20,000 various fabric types. This allows for a high level of clothing detection accuracy, which allows the washing machine to automatically select which programme to run. Cotton, mixed fabric, and easy care are common options”, he added. 