 Rosicrucian Order (AMORC) has charged Nigerians to look out for political leaders with the virtues and qualities exhibited by Nigeria’s founding fathers like Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe, Obafemi Awolowo and Alhaji Tafa Balewa, who are interested to assist the nation recover its lost glory. Grand regional administrator/president, Rosicrucian Order, Dr Kenneth Idiodi, gave the charge while speaking at the ongoing Eastern regional Rotational Conclave in Calabar. Speaking on the theme,”Practical Rosicrucian Tools For Nation Building,”  Idodi stated that hope was not lost despite the turbulent times and economic challenges faced by Nigerians. He noted that the situation was not completely hopeless and assured Nigerians of the good times that await them in less that no time especially if the right thing is done. He said, “Let every man take responsibility for our actions. It’s our actions that brought the nation to where we are at a moment. “If the next generation of leaders take responsibility for their actions, and imbibe discipline, selflessness and efficiency, the country might as well be moving in the right direction.   “We are all involved and we must take the blame. If we take responsibility for our actions, we will make progress,” Idodi maintained.   In his remarks, a lecturer at the occasion, Anthony Okorie, urged citizens of the country to kick-start the process of working towards national development.   He reprimanded citizens of the nation for being intolerant and inefficient with an ethical mindset, stressing that such attributes are likely to mar rapid development.   He noted that for any meaningful development to take place, Nigerians, including those in high places of authority should begin to have a mindset of discharging whatever responsibility assigned to them diligently.   Okorie assured that the nation is  capable of bouncing back to its feet if everyone works conscientiously to make the country great, adding that the economic hardship, insecurity, banditry, power failure and poverty would become a thing of the past.  