 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council has cautioned the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, against awarding himself victory in the ongoing 2023 presidential and National Assembly elections, saying the northern governors he expected to deliver votes for him failed spectacularly. The council also urged President Muhammadu Buhari to caution Tinubu against making claim of victory just as it lamented that the president was intimidated and forced by APC chieftains to publicly display who he voted for in Saturday’s elections. The campaign council stated while reacting to a publication by a media outfit which it said is owned by Tinubu. The media outfit claimed that Tinubu was leading in North-West, South-West and North-Central zones of the country. But, the Director of Strategic Communications
Atiku/Okowa Presidential Campaign Council, Chief Dele Momodu, who signed statement on Sunday, said Tinubu remains the only mainstream candidate whose homebase of South-West was decimated by opposition parties in Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Oyo, Osun and Ekiti States. He said, “Our attention has just been drawn to the recklessly dangerous publication unilaterally awarding an impossible victory to the APC Presidential candidate Chief Bola Tinubu. The said newspaper is owned by Tinubu. “Only yesterday, we all saw how thugs of the APC Chieftains and his allies took over the streets of Lagos burning ballot boxes and documents and generally misbehaving in order to disenfranchise the determined electorates. Despite all of these ugly attempts at stealing victory, the APC suffered its worst cataclysmic loss in most of the polling centers in Lagos. The same happened in Kano. Incapable of ever being sobered by the crushing humiliation in its traditional territories, we woke up this morning to read about the pathetic and illegal lies cooked up by the Tinubu media goons. “Tinubu remains the only mainstream candidate whose homebase of South West was decimated by opposition parties in Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Oyo, Osun and Ekiti. Most of the Northern Governors he also expected to help him garner votes in the Northern regions failed spectacularly to deliver the badly needed votes. He failed in the South East and South South. “The only candidate with the national spread is the PDP Presidential candidate, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. But as a responsible citizen and respected statesman, he will never rush to the media to claim his well deserved victory and glory after a long and tortuous journey. “We hereby call on INEC and the Federal Government to cage these troublesome APC Chieftains. We have all been witnesses to their unruly behaviour as they did everything to bully and blackmail President Muhammadu Buhari in order to chicken out of the currency swap policy. We also witnessed how they practically intimidated the President to the extent of forcing him to publicly display who he voted for in yesterday’s elections. “It was quite a bizarre, unfortunate and unprecedented scene to watch. We advise the President to find the courage to call the bluff of these desperate politicians who feel they can buy the whole of Nigeria…”