 The Atiku/Okowa Presidential Campaign Organization has berated the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for allegedly issuing threats of violence to the chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council and Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, at the APC Campaign Rally held in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, on Monday. The Atiku Campaign while condemning the resort to alleged threats by Tinubu, said he is trying to transfer his annoyance to the PDP Presidential Campaign over his failed campaign as well as the frustration of rejection by Nigerians. Spokesman of the Atiku campaign, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it is pathetic for Tinubu having found it extremely difficult to handle his impending defeat, is now plagued by deep-seated pains, frustration and anger against successful Nigerians which manifested in his attack on the person of Emmanuel. Ologbondiyan added, “It is crude, to say the least, for Tinubu to have threatened Gov Emmanuel with chasing him (Emmanuel), a democratically elected governor, out of Lagos State. “Nigerians can now imagine how autocratic a Tinubu Presidency, God forbids, will turn out as vicious, disrespectful, harassing, intimidating and subduing. “It is however instructive to note that Tinubu is clearly intimidated by Udom Emmanuel’s towering achievements as well as his deft management of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council which have further fortified Akwa Ibom and other states of the federation as PDP strongholds, completely impenetrable to the APC at all levels ahead of the 2023 general elections.” “Our Campaign has been made aware of how Tinubu expressed frustration when, upon arriving Akwa Ibom State, he was confronted by massive infrastructural development and citizen empowerment achieved by Udom Emmanuel, which he (Tinubu) was lacking during his tenure as Governor of Lagos State and which has compelled him to claim the achievements of his predecessors and successors in Lagos State. “Tinubu was said to have been comprehensively distressed by the heavy presence of the PDP in Akwa Ibom as well as the unshifting solidarity for the PDP Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar in the state, for which Tinubu became angry with Udom Emmanuel, having been faced by the futility of campaigning in Akwa Ibom State.   “In any case, it is not Udom Emmanuel’s fault that Asiwaju does not have any landmark project he can point to as his achievement as Governor of Lagos State, neither is it his (Emmanuel) fault that Tinubu was not competent enough to put together an effective team to drive his Presidential campaign which has practically collapsed.   “It is not Udom Emmanuel’s fault that Tinubu is plagued by corruption charges including reported conviction for trafficking in narcotic for which he forfeited the sum of $460,000 to the United State, neither is it the fault of the Akwa Ibom governor that Tinubu has a record of massive looting of Lagos State resources with his many Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) companies, cases of certificate forgery, perjury, identity theft, as well as inconsistencies in age, ancestry, educational qualifications among many others.”   He added that Governor Udom Emmanuel is not responsible for Tinubu’s endless gaffes, articulation errors, incoherence, his many blunders, evident disconnection from reality for which he (Senator Tinubu) has become the butt of weird jokes among Nigerians.   “It is important for Tinubu to know that Governor Udom Emmanuel cannot be distracted from his excellent performance as the Chairman of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council by his (Tinubu’s) unwarranted outbursts.   “Tinubu should also know that Lagos State is not his fiefdom and he cannot determine who stays or whom he will chase out of Lagos.   “Tinubu should accept the fact that Nigerians have decided to vote for Atiku Abubakar as the next President of our country and his resort to bitter envy, threats and violence will not change Atiku’s impending victory, insha Allah.”  