 The Emir of Ilorin and chairman Kwara State Council of Traditional Rulers, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari has appealed to residents of the state to remain calm and resolute in the face of the current cash crunch and fuel scarcity. The monarch counseled residents that hard times only last for a short period of time, even as he urged them to allow peace to reign before, during and after the general elections. The Emir in a special message released by his spokesman, AbdulAziz Arowona, urged parents and guardians to prevail on their children and wards to be law abiding and shun  any act capable of causing crises, especially during this hard period. Sulu-Gambari expressed concerns over the numerous socio-economic hardships orchestrated by the inadequate circulation of the new naira notes, fuel scarcity as well as the forthcoming general elections. He stressed that for the nation to enjoy democratic advancement in the face of challenges, noting that “there is the need for tolerance, perseverance and adequate supports from members of the public, irrespective of their social status and religious belief by standing on the path of peace and harmony in order to avoid the disruption of government programmes and activities.” He added:  “As a traditional ruler, myself and my colleagues are deeply touched and aware of the various challenges faced by the general public, especially people at the grassroots. While the government is making frantic efforts towards addressing the ugly situation, I appeal to the people of Ilorin Emirate and Kwarans at large to remain calm and patient and not to allow anyone to use them to cause political unrest in the society.  “Naira notes remain the only legal tender which allows for easy transaction of business activities while a large volume of fuel is being consumed on daily basis for both domestic and industrial purposes, therefore, the scarcity of both has no doubt caused unbearable hardship on the people.  “It is only in an atmosphere of peace and tranquility that democracy can grow. I urge all political parties’ stalwarts to endeavour to play the game of electioneering processes by the rules by embracing peaceful coexistence among themselves irrespective of their party lines.  “Voters should also exercise their franchise in a peaceful manner and vote for candidates of their choice without fear. The Ilorin Emirate is peaceful. Kwara State is peaceful and we don’t want any unfortunate incident that will tarnish our longstanding reputation as the most peaceful state in Nigeria.  “I want to appeal to politicians and their supporters not to overheat the polity in their quests to canvass for votes from the electorate as no society can grow amidst rancour and disorderliness.”