 The executive secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote was, at the weekend, conferred with a Doctor of Science degree at the 8th convocation of the Imo State University, Owerri. He was awarded for his excellent contributions to the growth and transformation of the Nigerian oil and gas industry and the towering leadership he has provided for the development of local content in Nigeria and Africa. The award was received on his behalf by the director, Planning, Research and Statistics, NCDMB, Mr. Patrick Daziba Obah, who dedicated it to the management and staff of the board for their excellent performance on their job functions and accomplishments, which continue to receive positive reviews from government and other industry stakeholders. In attendance at the event were important personalities, including the Imo state governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, and former governor, Rochas Okorocha, now a serving Senator, as well as the institution’s vice chancellor, Professor Uchefula Chukwumaeze. In the citation on Engr. Wabote who is an alumnus of Rivers State University of Science and Technology, Port Harcourt, and Leeds Metropolitan University, United Kingdom, the Imo State University stated: “prior to his current appointment as the Executive Secretary of NCDMB, he had an exceptional career in Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), spanning over 26 years. he held several leadership roles and positions, including Executive Director; General Manager Local Content, and General Manager, Business and Government Relations. In honouring Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote, the authorities of Imo State University were holding him up as a model public servant, a thought leader in local content, astute manager of men and resources, who has acquired significant academic knowledge and applied it practically in transforming an important sector in the Nigerian economy. It showed in his success story at SPDC and even more at NCDMB, where the organisation has surpassed performance targets in several areas, including development of indigenous technical capability, and had upped Nigerian content from 26% in 2016 to 54 per cent at the end of 2022. Others, who received honourary doctorate degrees, were Nigeria’s first and only woman State Governor, Dame Virgy Ngozi Etiaba, who served between  November, 3, 2006 and February 9, 2007, when the then Anambra State governor, Mr. Peter Obi was impeached, before the Court of Appeal overturned the impeachment; Chief Oliver Chukwudum Alawuba, group managing director/CEO, United Bank for Africa Plc, and Chief Chika Emenike (NPOM), CEO, Kotec Group of Companies. This honourary doctorate degree is coming in the wake of several other national and international recognitions bestowed on the executive secretary and the board in recent months. Last Tuesday,  the executive secretary received the Leadership Local Content Champion of the Year Award at the 14th Leadership Conference and Awards held in  Abuja. Similarly, last Wednesday, the board was adjudged as “a Level 5 Platinum Level organisation” in a summary report of the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR) Self-assessment Tool (SAT). 