The presidential candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Engr Yabagi Yusuf Sani, has said the party will end all ethnic agitations and marginalization in the country if ejected into  office. Sani stated this during the presidential/ governorship flagoff campaigns of the party in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, saying the rule of law would be the guiding principle of the government. “Under the ADP government everyone in the country will be treated according to the provisions of the law irrespective of the part of the country the person comes from or the religion he or she belongs,” he said. Accompanied by members of the party’s National Working Committee and the Presidential Campaign Council, he assured that he would enthrone the rule of law in the country from his first day in office. He expressed worry that the country  has been reeling in crisis and rising agitations for self determination in some parts of the country due to the absence of rule of law in the way government treats its citizens. On the ordeal of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, he noted that if there is rule of law in the country, the government would obey the court and Kanu won’t remain in indefinite detention. ”I am saying this with all sense of responsibility, South East people have been pushed to the wall and I do believe that when you give people equal opportunity, believe you me, they will work as if there is no tomorrow.” The vice-presidential candidate of the party, Dr Okey Udo called on the people to support the party in the general election, saying the party has the most qualified, educated and experienced presidential candidate. In her remarks the director general of the council, Engr. Josephine Elebute-Halle, specially appealed to the women to back the party candidates at all levels with their huge voting strength. Both the governorship candidate of the party in the state, Hon Jonas Chibuike Okafor and the chairman, Deacon Benjamin Arisa assured the national leadership that the party was out to take over government in the state. Highlight of the rally was the presentation of party flags to the governorship candidate and other candidates of the party by the presidential candidate, who also doubles as the national chairman of the party.