 A former defence spokesman, Maj. Gen. John Enenche (rtd) has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies that will be involved in the conduct of Saturday’s presidential election across the country to maintain neutrality. Enenche said a lot of people have suffered, adding that Saturday’s presidential election offers them an opportunity to elect a competent leader that would assuage the sufferings of the masses and move the country forward. Speaking in an interview with LEADERSHIP, Enenche said the electoral umpire and the police which are the lead agencies on election conduct and security, should know that they have people depending on them to do the right thing. He urged Nigerians to avoid trouble and other acts that could affect the credibility of the election, adding that despite the cash scarcity, Nigerians should ensure they vote for their freedom. “My advice to the security agencies, particularly the lead agency, which is supposed to be the police, is to be firm. They should not be distracted. Why am I saying so? Sometimes human beings want to bend to pressure for several reasons. “From what we’ve gone through from the past eight years and even beyond 16 years, and 20 years, if you are a policeman, you are a soldier, you are an immigration or the state service personnel, you are just one person in the organisation and you have multiples that are relying on you. Your relations are suffering. That one alone should be a challenge. “But I am urging the security personnel to go and stand their ground. Let the credible candidate that we’ve seen now emerge. We are not saying you should defend a particular candidate and leave out others. We are saying that just go and do your duty. Let the policeman go and do his job and not be bought over or look the other way round. “Whatever you are supposed to do, ensure you provide security. Let no voter be intimidated. That is my advice to the police. Enenche advised Nigerians to ensure they vote competent people, adding that the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP) Mr Peter Obi has a track record Nigerians should consider. He said; “Peter Obi is a man with impeccable integrity, a man of strength. A man of physical fitness and mental alertness. Highly cognitive and focused which I couldn’t find amongst the other candidates. “So, that is what informed my decision to endorse Peter Obi for Saturday’s presidential election and I believe that he will definitely make himself and Datti Baba Ahmed the example of good leadership in Nigeria.”  