Enugu State youths have endorsed the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Dr Peter Mbah. They promised to vote for him on March 11, 2023, declaring his manifesto as “more than” what they anticipated for the state. The youths gave the endorsement at the weekend, where they adjudged Mbah’s manifesto which covers education, health, agriculture, social infrastructure, youth empowerment among others as capable of taking the state to greater heights if well implemented. The youths urged the people of the state to give Mbah the needed support during next month’s elections. At an interactive town hall meeting tagged:  “A Day with Peter Mbah: Dissecting the Philosophy of Tomorrow is Here”, which was organised by Kwado Peter Mbah, a frontline support group in Enugu, at the International Conference Centre, Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu, the youths said the governorship candidate had connected with them through the youth empowerment and scholarship programmes of the Peter Mbah Foundation and his laudable manifesto geared towards the empowerment of the citizens, especially the young ones. The youths said the PDP gubernatorial flagbearer had been able to show, through his robust programmes designed to turn the state into a technological, entrepreneurial and industrial hub, that the youths were at the forefront of his ideology and governance philosophy. The convener of the support group, Monday Diamond Ani, stated that they resolved to rally youths across the state for Mbah’s governorship project because of their strong desire to see a new Enugu State, which the PDP candidate envisioned in his “excellent manifesto. “We choose to support Dr. Peter Mbah because of his competence, humility and what he has to offer the youths when he comes to power. Our gathering here today is to show that the youths of our state love him and that they need him at a time like this to pilot the affairs of our state,” he said. Diamond, who commended Mbah’s entrepreneurial exploits in the private sector, added that the youth would leave no stone unturned in giving him victory in the March 11 polls. Fielding numerous questions  ranging from housing, education, social amenities,  security, agriculture as well as place of non-indigenes amid unending cheers from the mammoth crowd of youths, Mbah described them as the heroes and heroines of the tomorrow, saying that his motivation was to create an enabling environment where the youths could fulfill their potentials, discover their hidden talents, and compete creatively within the emerging global order. “You are the tomorrow that is here, literally speaking. How do we build that tomorrow? First, we have to adopt the can-do spirit, and second, create an enabling environment where you can thrive. Tomorrow is here, representing the compelling vision of the innate can-do spirit to better the lots of our people,” he stated. While espousing his sector-by-sector programmes for the state, which he called integrated development programmes, Mbah maintained that the youth were at the core of his governance philosophy, adding that he would surmount the plethora of challenges facing them by providing the facilities for their training, education, skill, human capital development and empowerment, and turning the youth into productive assets. He also explained that with the policies and programmes that would be set up by his administration, Enugu youths could easily fit into the world of robotic science, artificial intelligence, virtual reality, augmented reality, mechatronics, e-commerce and Fintech that would give them an edge over others.