As part of the its efforts to celebrate an iconic figure, Mr. Josiah Akanbi Ajiboye, popularly known as “Josy Ajiboye”, Main Auction House is hosting a 2-day exhibition of mainly his artworks, conversations about him and auction of his works. The event is scheduled for the 9th and 10th, February. Also, the conversation & auction sale of the works is planned for 11th February by 2pm. The auction sale will take place at Oregun, Lagos by 3.45pm. In a statement signed by the managing director, CAI, ‘Dayo Adebayo, the event is aptly titled “Inside Out: Unveiling Josy Ajiboye”. ‘‘The man “Josy” is one of Nigeria’s finest cartoonists and painters, whose works are much sought after all over the world. Josy’s unique painting style of romantic naturalism, thematically centered on nature and culture endears him to art collectors and patrons. He retired from Daily Times in 2000 as the Group Art Editor having carved a niche for himself as a veteran cartoonist, his cartoons are ageless and his medium of expressing them is endearing to his readers.  However, Josy never retired from painting and like wine, he is getting better with age. Over 50 of Josy’s paintings spanning over a decade will be on display and this will give the public the rare opportunity to see and appreciate Josy’s unique paintings,’’ the statement read.  The Main Auction House also stated that the auctioning of some of Josy’s works will give collectors and patrons the opportunity of purchasing his masterpieces. ‘‘The 2 founders of Main Auction House are professional Auctioneers trained in UK and USA and they both hold the Chartered Auctioneers Institute (CAI) designation, the first for any Nigerian.  The National Auctioneers Association, USA, which is the largest body of professional Auctioneers in the world, awards the CAI designation after 3 years of intensive professional training. The designation depicts that the holder has acquired the highest level of professional training to earn the most prestigious designation for any auctioneer,’’ the statement read.