 Global analytics software provider FICO has partnered with FPG Technologies & Solutions LTD, a member of FlexiP Group, to bring advanced decision management and analytics tools to companies across West Africa. according to terms of the partnership, FPG will sell, implement and support FICO Blaze Advisor decision rules management system and FICO Xpress Optimisation, leading tools that businesses use to automate high-volume decisions, rapidly change strategies and leverage advanced analytics to improve performance. The chief executive officer, FlexiP Group, Rex Mafiana said, West African companies are engaged in digital transformation initiatives that have gotten extra momentum from the pandemic. “Across all industries, it’s critical to be able to automate more decisions, to change strategies faster, and to increase efficiency. “FICO has world-class tools that can help our customers be more competitive, and also help our own development team develop new products,” he.added. In addition, the managing partner, relationships for FICO in Europe, Middle East and Africa, Mark Farmer said, rules management and mathematical optimization are the core technologies for better decisions. “FPG has deep domain expertise in multiple industries in West Africa, and can help businesses there use these technologies to transform their performance,” he added. As FICO’s flagship rules authoring solution, FICO Blaze Advisor decision rules management system maximizes control over high-volume operational decisions. sor provides businesses across multiple industries with a scalable solution that delivers unprecedented agility and actionability for smarter, transparent, and better business decisions. Meanwhile, the FICO Xpress Optimisation allows businesses to easily build, deploy and use optimisation solutions that crunch through millions of potential scenarios to find the ideal solution. Standard capabilities include scalable high-performance solvers and algorithms, flexible modeling environments, rapid application development, comparative scenario analysis and reporting capabilities, for on-premises and cloud installations.