 Former minister of Transportation and director-general of the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Council in Rivers State, Dr Abiye Sekibo, has decried the silence of the presidency over the escalating insecurity in the state ahead of the election. Sekibo, who stated this during a programme on Arise TV on Sunday, said the presidency cannot afford to be silent over the increasing election related violence in Rivers State. Sekibo had accused Governor Nyesom Wike of allegedly masterminding a deadly attack on him in Port Harcourt. Wike, in turn, described Sekibo’s claim as untrue, declaring that he has never and will not indulge in any act of sponsoring assassins against anybody. But speaking yesterday on the programme, Sekibo said, “We should not allow another operation wetie happen.” On the concerns of an interim government emerging in the face of the political instability in the polity, Sekibo noted that the government has to do more to ensure such fears do not materialise. He however added that “INEC has told us they are prepared and we believe them. Thankfully they have brought BVAS.” “But the President’s comments about free and fair election and transition won’t come to pass without action. He should back what he is saying with action.” The former minister added that the president cannot afford to be keeping quiet about the level of violent events in Rivers State. Sekibo said “Having set up the transition committee and signed the executive orders, he should follow it up with action.” He said the president should endeavor to assign neutral people to verify claims being made by the  opposition about the level of violence against them. He stressed that the escalating  electoral violence in the polity should concern the security agencies. “They have been battling with Boko Haram IPOB and now they have election violence to deal with,” he said of security agencies, adding, “I don’t see us working the talk yet.” On precautions he is taking in the event of possible future attacks, he said as much as God is in control, a good number of his friends have already started donating bullet proof cars both in Abuja and Port Harcourt.  