Africa Magic (AM) will launch three indigenous series in its three major Nigerian language channels – Nwanyi Ike in Africa Magic Igbo, Dalla Dalla on Africa Magic Hausa, and Irora Iya on Africa Magic Yoruba. Nwanyi Ike (Strong Woman) follows the polygamous Okeke family and the drama that ensues after their father’s death. Chaos  ensues in a polygamous family after the sudden death of their patriarch, as their first daughter convinced that she is upholding her father’s legacy, wages war with her only brother and further divides the family. Set on the north of Nigeria, Dalla Dalla is a story of greed. When Farouk receives a keepsake of $120,000 from his close friend Hamisu to keep it secret. In an unexplained turn of events someone murders Hamisu and leaves Farouk with a windfall that no one knows about, or so it seems. What is Farouk to do with this ‘gift’? keep it? Or ensure it gets to its destination? Irora Iya is about a teenage girl Morayo who on finding herself pregnant post-secondary school, runs away from home in order to abort the baby. However, the doctor who secretly works for an infant trafficker cajoles Morayo into seeking refuge with the trafficker. The trafficker finds out from her herbalist that Morayo is very important to her establishment and must not leave. When Morayo discovers the true horrors of the place, she makes futile attempts to escape while her parents and ex-boyfriend look for her. Will Morayo ever be found? Executive Head of Content and West Africa Channels, Multichoice, Dr Busola Tejumola, said “We are delighted to present our viewers with these new indigenous series. They explore captivating storylines delivered by a great ensemble of cast and crew that will keep viewers glued to their screens and on the edge of their seats. It’s always exciting to see our traditional stories being told in their purest forms and our languages, especially when they are created with the highest production standards, as these have. Nwanyi Ike, Dalla Dalla and Irora Iya will reiterate our position as Africa’s most loved storyteller, and we can’t wait to see how viewers react to them. All series will premiere between February and March 2023, Nwanyi Ike by February 1, Dalla Dalla – February 13, and Irora Iya by March 1, 2023.; and will be aired on the respective AM channels between 8.30am to 9pm. 