The Rivers State Police Command has invited a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ephraim Nwuzi, following inciting comments credited to him in a short video trending on social media platforms. This is as the Command has launched an investigation into the explosion that rocked a building housing the Wish FM and the Atlantic Television Network at Ozuoba area of Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. Nwuzi, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and member representing Etche/Omuma Federal Constituency of Rivers State in the House of Representatives, was allegedly seen in the video saying that residents of the state should be shot during the general election coming up on February 25, 2023 in the state. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Grace Iringe-Koko, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, said the invitation was extended to the federal lawmaker by the Supervising Assistant Inspector-General of Police for the Elections, Abutu Yaro. Meanwhile, AIG Yaro has assured officials and ad-hoc staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as well as members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), foreign and local observers, and voters, and all other stakeholders in the elections of adequate security before, during, and after the general election. The AIG, who urged all contestants and political parties to exercise caution, also called on the Rivers State residents to call the police at the following emergency numbers to report all suspicious activities and persons during the course of the elections: 08032003514, 08098880134. Meanwhile, the Rivers State Police Command, has launched an investigation into the explosion that occured at a building housing the Wish FM and the Atlantic Television Network at Ozuoba area of Port Harcourt. The two media outfits are owned by Hon. Chinyere Igwe, a member of the House of Representatives and staunch supporter of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. The command’s image-maker, Grace Iringe-Koko, in a statement made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, assured that if the incident was indeed orchestrated by anyone or group, the culprits will be hunted down and made to face the full wrath of the law. The statement reads in part: “On Tuesday, 21st February 2023 at about 8.45pm Information received from one Peter Anietie of 99.5 Wish FM/Atlantic Television Network has it that some hoodlums threw an explosive device into the generator house and transformer area, which caused damage to generators and a 500kva transformer as well as a transformer feeder panel and electronic appliances in both the radio and television stations. Fortunately no life was lost. “Operatives of the Explosive Ordnance Department (EOD) have been deployed  to the scene for swift and detailed investigation with a view to ascertaining the veracity of the information and to unravel what exactly caused the explosion. “The Command assures that if the incident was indeed orchestrated by anyone or group, the culprits will be hunted down and made to face the full wrath of the law. “The Command wishes to assure all residents of their safety especially at this period. It will leave no stone unturned in providing  quality security for all persons residing in or visiting the state.”