The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has released a video footage of the third and latest attack on the country home of its spokesperson, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, by unknown gunmen in Akwoka, Imo State, on February 7, 2023. This third attack is coming less than a month after the second attack on January 14 where four people were killed including his uncle and property including houses and over 32 vehicles worth over N1billion were destroyed. The video showed the men armed with guns, machetes, charms and other dangerous weapons invading the house in a commando style and when they could not find Ugochinyere in the house resorted to terrorising occupants of the house, stealing of property, planting incriminating items and destruction of property including bursting overhead water tanks and industrial size generators. The group in a press conference in Abuja also accused the Imo State government and the State’s Commissioner of Police of knowing more than they were willing to say over the attack. They alleged that from amongst the attackers, men of the Imo State Police Command, Ebubeagu Network and at least one officer from the Force Intelligence and Investigation Bureau (FIIB) were identified from the video. They, therefore, called on the Inspector General of Police to immediately investigate the attack so as to unravel the mystery behind Unknown Gunmen in Imo State. A statement signed by 2nd spokesperson of the coalition, Mark Adebayo, on Thursday, also accused the Imo CP of colluding with the ruling party in the State to seize voter education and campaign materials belonging to Ugochinyere and the PDP as well as detaining and torturing those in possession of the materials for six days without charging them to Court or releasing them. He added that the lawyer who went to secure the bail of the arrested people was also arrested and detained but was released after three days. Adebayo said the Imo CP shielded those responsible for voters register manipulation but only went ahead to charge innocent INEC staff to Court, an action which has been struck out by the court for lack of evidence.  CUPP called on the Inspector General of Police to immediately redeploy the Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Ahmed Barde, for his alleged involvement in the attacks on Ugochinyere and also his alleged involvement in politics.  The Coalition further called on the IGP to restrict Governor Hope Uzodimma from coming to Ideato area of the State on Election Day as the governor had promised to spend the day in that constituency on February 25. CUPP called on both Local and Foreign election observers ad also foreign missions to note Ideato as a flash point for possible election related violence.