 The emir of Dutse in Jigawa State Dr Nuhu Muhammad Sanusi died yesterday at the age of 78. Dr Sanusi who was turbaned as the emir of Dutse on 15th December, 1995, died during a brief illness at National Hospital in Abuja. He is survived by three wives, many children and grandchildren. In his condolence message, Governor Muhammad Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State said he received the news of the death of the traditional ruler with sadness and deep feeling of a great national loss. He described the late monarch as “a humble, religious and community leader whose conduct and character in life had been to the service of humanity.” Governor Badaru lamented that the death of the Emir had created a vacuum too difficult to be filled considering his contributions to peace, stability and progress in his domain and the country. He prayed to Allah in His infinite mercy to grant his soul Aljannah Firdausi and called on the people of the emirate to bear the loss with the spirit of acquiescence to God’s will. At the time of filing this report, the Dutse emirate which was thrown into mourning had not yet announced the funeral rites which may take place today. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has mourned the demise of Sanusi, the first-class traditional ruler (Emir) of Dutse, the Jigawa State capital. He was recognised as one of Northern Nigeria’s modernising leaders. Before his death, the emir was the chancellor of Sokoto State University. He was considered as an exemplary leader in the global quest for a sustainable living environment and a lead advocate for afforestation and the green ecosystem.  The late Emir’s official biography equally puts him up as an advocate of the mitigation of climate change, prompting him to build the Dutse Royal Golf Course which is reputed to be one of the largest in Nigeria with lush vegetation, exotic flora and rare fauna.  Expressing sadness at the passing of the emir, President Buhari in a statement issued yesterday by his media aide , Garba Shehu said, “He was instrumental to the progress Dutse had achieved in the last three decades under his watch. He was a grassroots person who was loved by all.”  The president conveyed his condolences and that of the nation to the Dutse Emirate, the government and people of Jigawa State over the sad loss.  