A Benin socio-cultural group, Edo National Voice (ENV) has described the decision of His Majesty, Oba Ewuare II, Oba of Benin, over the sack of Benin Duke, Edomwonyi Iduozee Ogiegbaen of Siluko, as a right step in the right direction.  Ogiegbaen was sacked over alleged rebellion, dereliction of duties and uprising in the Enigies fold in Benin Kingdom, triggering a wave of backlash.  His sack was made public last week by the Oba during an open mediation in his palace in Benin City where he immediately announced the appointment of Capt. Uwadiae Ohonbamumwen (rtd) as the Odionwere in Egbaen Siluko’s Dukedom.  The sack also followed the immediate appointment by the Oba of Mr Aimuamwosa Oyemwense Agidi as the Odionwere of Obazuwa Dukedom in Ovia North East Local Government Area of Edo State, ahead of the installation of the next Enogie in Obazuwa, which was formerly administered by HRH. Edun Akenzua, who transited in 2022.  Reacting to the development, ENV recalled that the recent rebellious move by some enigies was not unconnected with plans to reloot Benin stolen artefacts.  In a jointly signed press statement by ENV President, Iyamu Osaro Culture and Secretary General, Comrade Osaghae Amadin, the group warned those nursing plans to reloot Benin artefacts of dire consequences.  “For emphasis sake, let it be noted that the recent sacrilegious action orchestrated by defiant and uncultured Enigies is not unconnected with the plans by some enemies of Benin Kingdom to reloot our stolen Artifacts and it’s proceeds.  “Therefore, having failed to actualize their selfish plans against our revered Throne and Benin Kingdom, they secretly lured the sacked Enogie of Ogie-Egbaen Siluko and his gang with money in a bid to causing division within our well structured Kingdom.  “Subsequent upon the above, we want to use this medium to remind the enemies of Benin Kingdom whose stocks in trade is to reloot our stolen Artifacts and it’s proceeds to find other business doing because we will not allow them to have access to our stolen Artifacts,” it stated.