The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has released  phone numbers to enable Nigerians confirm their location of their polling units via short message service (SMS), ahead of the forthcoming general elections. The electoral body said eligible registered voters in Nigeria can make the confirmation by sending an SMS to any of the two dedicated lines released by the commission. The commission’s chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu stated this yesterday in his message to voters ahead of the elections. He said that a voter can now check the location of his PUs by texting the name of their state, last name, and the last six digits of their voter identification number (VIN) to 09062830860 or 09062830861. “Example: FCT MAGAJI 445322.” Yakubu said in the INECs effort to make voting more credible and result management more transparent, the commission has introduced several innovations facilitated by technology. H said, “INEC expanded voter access to PUs by establishing 56,872 new ones, to give Nigerians a more pleasant experience on election day. “As I have said repeatedly, the right to vote can only be exercised where there is a place to vote. Arising from the recent mock accreditation exercise nationwide using the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS), some voters turned up at the wrong PUs. “This happened both in cases where voters have been migrated to other polling units by the commission and even where they voluntarily chose new voting locations during the last Continuous Voter Registration (CVR).” Yakubu said the commission believes that there could voters in the same situation. “This challenge must be addressed so that it does not happen on election day,” Yakubu said. The INEC boss said that in order to ease the process, the commission was sending bulk phone text messages (SMS) to citizens voting in new PUs. He added that similarly, the register of such voters for each State had been sent to the Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC) for publicity, particularly through messages in local languages. He said, “Furthermore, the commission is offering two unique ways by which all voters can locate and confirm their PUs before election day. “This can be done by sending a normal text message or by simply visiting our website. “The detailed procedure is attached to this message and also uploaded to our website and social media platforms.” Yakubu said that registered voters could also send inquiries to INEC’s various public outreach platforms shown in the attached procedure. He urged all eligible voters to confirm their voting locations ahead of election day. 