 Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has said the new naira policy was poorly executed and ill-timed. He said the poor implementation was either a display of incapacity or as a sign of sabotage. Ganduje disclosed this when he brainstormed with bank managers, representatives of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Security Agencies, and other stakeholders, at an interactive session. The engagement took place at Africa House, Government House, Kano, yesterday, as he assured that, “The policy is a good one, but the implementation is poorly executed and ill-timed. The poor implementation is either a display of incapacity and/or as a sign of sabotage.” He explained that the implementation was not aimed at economic development, but for destroying democracy and causing confusion all over.  “Implementation of the policy is our major concern and problem. Not the policy itself. If you want to implement such a policy there is a need for you to make public enlightenment and engagement with stakeholders before you arrive at the implementation stage.  “If you want to implement any policy as a leader you need to take many things into consideration. People are suffering,” he said.  According to the governor, “You cannot successfully implement a policy without proper planning for it. You need strong institutions if you want to implement this kind of policy.”  He reiterated that the Kano state government would continue to fight for the good implementation of the new Naira policy.  He said, “Probably the people targeted by the poor implementation of this policy are not even suffering like other citizens. Something must be done to ameliorate this hardship being faced by our people.”  After reminding people about the state government intervention during COVID-19 pandemic, when the state distributed palliatives, he further challenged that, “Since we are facing what I now called COVID-23 we are making all preparations towards distributing palliatives again.”  He also promised that as people continue to face hard times, the state government is planning to flood streets with buses that would be moving people free of charge to major destinations in the state.  