Presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Prince Adewole Adebayo, has said Nigeria’s Afrocentric foreign policy has not brought reciprocal benefits to the country. He spoke on the theme: ‘World of Nigeria and Nigeria in the World: Foreign Policy as an Adjunct of Domestic Priorities,” at the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA) in Lagos on Monday. Speaking at the event tagged: NIIA Platform for 2023 Presidential Candidates, Prince Adewole said the theoretical pathway to a beneficial foreign policy is the realist, power-focused school of thought and action. He further explained that economic diplomacy is the way forward if Nigeria would use foreign policy to advance its domestic priorities in the spheres of fighting poverty and ending insecurity. He said, “I have been able to establish the fact that Nigeria’s Afrocentric foreign policy hasn’t brought reciprocal benefits to the country. It is noteworthy that the theoretical pathway to a beneficial foreign policy is the realist, power-focused school of thought and action. I want to submit that economic diplomacy, spelt out in clear terms, is the way forward if Nigeria would use foreign policy to advance its domestic priorities in the spheres of fighting poverty and ending insecurity.” On what he will do if elected as Nigeria’s President regarding foreign policy, Prince Adewole said he would continue to abide by all international agreements signed and executed by the country. The SDP Flagbearer said he will make sure the finest of the finest represent the country internationally, adding that he will take care of the country’s high commissions, and embassies. According to him, Nigeria has more than enough to abolish poverty, and it must manage its sovereignty well and have full control of its land. In his remarks, the Institute’s Director General, Professor Eghosa Osaghae said the world has opened its doors to Nigeria in recent times; hence, the need to sound out the candidates on what the candidates’ foreign policy agenda would be. Meanwhile, Professor Osaghae said Prince Adewole is the first of the candidates to honour the Institute’s invitation.