In furtherance of its commitment to support the Central Bank of Nigeria’s naira redesign policy, Hope PSBank, a Unified Payment Services Limited subsidiary has commenced a community inclusion initiative. Speaking at a press conference to unveil the initiative at the weekend in Lagos, the managing director of the bank, Ogechi Altraide, explained that, this initiative is targeted at promoting a cashless economy and ensuring that Nigerians, particularly the unbanked, perform transactions through electronic channels across the country. She disclosed that the initiative would enable Nigerians to open Hope Wallet from their phones, saying, the wallet holders can deposit their cash into the wallet at any agency banking outlet in different communities across the country. She further stated that the bank has offered to give everyone N500 cash incentive for opening the wallet, saying, all transactions can be performed using their phone numbers. The Political Dimension Of The Naira Redesign “Hope PSBank is giving N500 to everyone that opens the Hope Wallet. The phone number is the wallet, account number, and ATM card. The phone number can be used to transfer money, make payments and withdrawals at PoS, ATM and Web,” she said. Also speaking, group head, Corporate Services, Hope PSBank, Cletus Igah, stated that, the initiative is designed to accommodate all Nigerians by ensuring that they can perform any transaction without any hindrance using their digital wallet. According to Igah, the company remains committed to supporting Nigerians to leverage digital financial services for inclusion, irrespective of their socioeconomic status. He said, with the digital wallet, individuals and businesses can now access valuable and affordable financial products and services that meet their needs; transactions, payments, savings and delivered responsibly and sustainably, especially in rural areas. He urged all Nigerians to take advantage of the initiative and the seamless account opening process. Hope Payment Service Bank, Nigeria’s premier Digital-first Bank was incorporated in September 2019 to leverage digital technologies to deliver inclusive financial services. 