 The commandant-general, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Dr Ahmed Abubakar Audi has assured members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) of adequate security during and after the 2023 general election. Audi, in a statement by the corps director of public relations, DCC Olusola Odumosu, expressed the Corps readiness to protect youth corps members deployed for the 2023 general election when he played host to the director-general (DG) of the NYSC, Brig. Gen. Yushau Dogara Ahmed and some key management staff of the scheme in his office in Abuja. The NSCDC further assured the NYSC boss of the Corps ‘ continuous support in the deployment of personnel to their camps at all periods when their services are needed due to the importance they attach to the lives of Corps members, staff and their property. Audi expressed delight and optimism about the outcome of the scientific synergy existing between the security agencies at the forefront of the 2023 election security management. He hinted that strategies have been put in place in the interest of national security to address perceived security challenges before, during and after the elections and assured that Corps members will be adequately protected during the exercise. Audi advised Nigerians to participate fully in the forthcoming elections, stating that adequate measures have been put in place by the government to guarantee a peaceful atmosphere across the country. On his part, the DG NYSC , Brig. Gen. Yushau Dogara Ahmed commended the diligence and uprightness of the officers and men of the Corps, for upholding the rules and regulations of the camp, in conjunction with other security agencies. Unveiling the purpose of his visit, the DG explained that he was at the NSCDC headquarters to appreciate its services to the scheme at the various orientation camps. He disclosed that part of his mission was to strengthen and deepen the existing relationship between both agencies ahead of the forthcoming elections, since it recognises the Corps as its critical partner. He requested the corps to intensify surveillance that would ensure maximum protection and guarantee the security of deployed corps members, NYSC camps and places of primary assignments like they do for other critical national assets and infrastructures of government. The CG called for more public support to security agencies charged with the responsibilities of delivering safe, secured and credible elections, urging them to take steps to guarantee personal security using the cliche “when you see something, say something.” 