Air Peace, yesterday, disclosed plans to begin Mumbai, India operation by 31st of March, 2023. In a press statement by the airline’s spokesman, Stanley Olisa, the airline met with its travel agents preparatory to the launch of Mumbai operations. According to him, the meeting which was tagged ‘Travel Agents Forum for Mumbai and Upcoming Routes’, was  attended by top travel agents and partners of the airline and was an opportunity for engagement on all the crucial initiatives regarding route network expansion. The chief operating officer(COO), Air Peace, Oluwatoyin Olajide expressed appreciation to the travel agents for their support towards the growth of the brand. Olajide, who was represented by the head of Commercial and Business Development, Ifeoma Ekwerike, further stressed that, the airline is embarking on an aggressive but strategic route expansion to ease the travel burden of Nigerians and provide more seamless connectivity. “We have a number of routes in the works. Mumbai is launching on March 31, 2023. Tel Aviv, Malabo, Congo Kinshasa, Lome and other regional destinations have been planned for commencement and announcements will be made once we finalize the arrangements,” she stressed. According to the airline, passengers can connect Mumbai from Kano, Monrovia, Abuja, Accra, Port Harcourt and Douala through Lagos. Speaking earlier, the chief pilot, Air Peace, Captain Martin Okunpolor stated that, the airline would be flying direct, nonstop to Mumbai. He added that Delhi operations would follow subsequently, after the Mumbai operations have gained some momentum. He said the airline would be deploying its wide-body, luxury Boeing 777 aircraft for the route and plans to begin with two weekly flight frequencies, adding that, the Indian airspace is not new to Air Peace as the airline operated special charter flights to the country during the COVID-19 period. “Passengers will enjoy the flight experience and we have well-trained and richly experienced pilots that operate our international flights, and Mumbai will not be an exception,” Captain Okunpolor asserted. The forum was interactive as travel agents asked critical questions and gave suggestions on current route network and prospective destinations.