The vice-presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Datti Baba-Ahmed, has expressed happiness with the way and manner the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is conducting the 2023 general election so far. He gave the commendation yesterday in an interview with journalists shortly after casting his vote at polling unit 021, Gidan Iro Kaya, Maje Road in Tudun Wada, Zaria, Kaduna State. According to him, “The conduct of this election so far at this polling unit and reports reaching us is highly commendable. The electorate are exercising their civic responsibility responsibly and INEC is meeting the expectations of the people and the air of serenity around and cordiality, everybody is happy so far.” On the general turnout of voters, Baba-Ahmed explained that, “So far, the turnout of women is not impressive. I see a longer queue of the men than that of the women, but it is the end results of the polling units that would tell, but women have been contributing their parts, we are grateful for that.” On the deployment of the BVAS machine for the election, he said, “Up to this point, we have not been disappointed with the new technology and we hope it will not. Remember, it is only the end result when the results here are transmitted without hitches, without interference and they are duly collated and the winner is duly elected that we would be able to make a firm statement. “The way we conducted our campaigns so peacefully in all parts of Nigeria, one of its kind, we are not the kind of people that would incite people to violence. We also insist firmly for justice being done.” In his message to Nigerians, he said, “The electorate should look inward and make sure they elect the best candidates. With or without money, people have always been able to move around. Me, my principal and our party have never deviated to money politics and would never do. We believe in the electorate; the typical Nigerians take cautious decisions as to where their destiny is headed without any influence of cash whatsoever or cohesion of religion and tribal politics. This has always been our attitude.”