A Coalition of Civil Society Group, under the aegis of Arewa Media Activists, yesterday rose from a meeting in Kano State and described those behind the currency swap as anti-people. They also declared their resolve to stand firmly behind the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Senator Bola Ahmad Tinubu. The group convener, Ibrahim Suleiman, said “We understood with pain and the suffering of the innocent Nigerians caused by the persistent fuel scarcity in the country, coupled with the abrupt Naira Redesign programmes. “But Nigerians should endeavor to shame these enemies of progress and stand solidly behind the presidential candidate Senator Bola Ahmad Tinubu,” he said. He further alleged that the sinister policy was conceived by opposition parties and their allies in the presidential villa with the motive to stop a Tinubu presidency. They further alleged that those opposition parties in the Presidency are working in tandem with the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who despite the suffering of the citizens is openly supporting the anti-people’s policy. “Atiku Abubakar remarks on the Naira Redesign programmes were callous, insensitive and indifferent to the suffering of the common man, and this is enough to tell you that Atiku Presidency will be bad for Nigeria and Nigerians as he will pursue this kind of policies that will make life miserable for the citizens.” “Therefore let us not give chance to Atiku Abubakar and his party, PDP by voting massively for Tinubu and all the other offices running under APC”. Ibrahim Suleiman the Convener of the Coalition said they appreciate the efforts of the APC Governors f Forum and the leadership of the National Assembly for not only disassociating themselves from the unpopular Naira Redesign policy but ensuring that it is halted through the Supreme Court judgement. The group asked Nigerians to remain calm, law abiding, prayerful and determined to vote for APC and Tinubu on February 25, 2023. Suleiman said, “Nigerians should remain focused, determined by shunning all violence tendencies but by being resolutely determined to ensure that these enemy elements do not triumph over them”. 