The managing director/CEO, Anchor Insurance Company Limited, Ebose Augustine Osegha, has bagged Insurance CEO of the Year award in Lagos CEO Awards event organised by Kijani Media Communications. This is even as he promised the company’s policyholders and critical stakeholders of better service deliver. In a letter signed by the head Jury/Convener, Amb. Ayo George and received by Ebose over the weekend, the body noted that, ”the jury, eminent people and indeed the good citizens and residents of Lagos have found you worthy of this honour largely for your hardwork, boardroom genius and your impeccable influence in the city and beyond.” According to the chief convener, “the ideas and activities by Anchor Insurance Company Limited in year 2022 were bold and revolutionary which were not common practices in the nation’s insurance sector before now. This in our rating, stood the Company out as one that was thinking out of the box and doing things differently in that sector, hence this well-deserved recognition that is being accorded the organisation’s leadership.” Ebose, a member of the Governing Council of the Nigerian Insurers’ Association (NIA), expressed his appreciation on behalf of the board, management and staff of the organisation, saying, ‘it was an award which calls for more challenging activities and engagements.’ thanked the public for believing in the business strength and brand direction of the company and promised not to disappoint the organisers in their judgment for the award. Ebose is the vice chairman, Local Organising Committee on ECOWAS Brown Card Scheme Council; member, Governmental Relations Committee of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) and Advisory Board member, Institute of Counselling in Nigeria. He was also a member of the Organising Committee and Logistics/Publicity Committee respectively of the African Insurance Organisations’ (AIO) Conference hosted by Nigeria in 2021. He is a fellow, Chartered Institute of Administration; member, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN); member, Institute of Directors (M.IoD) and member, Ikoyi Club 1938, among others.