 Nigerian Human Rights Community (NHRC) a coalition of several civil society groups yesterday said the National Assembly Elections held in Ekiti State was one of the best in Nigeria, saying “transparency, effectiveness and promptness of the process remain a reference point for future elections in the country.”
The group in a preliminary report pointed out that though the national elections held in Ekiti State was not without challenges it remains one of the best in Nigeria.  The group said INEC needs to improve on provision of more polling units and employment or more ad hoc staff to speed up the process.  The NIHRC had deployed 400 poll monitors in 16 local government areas and 19 local council development areas, (LCDAs) in Ekiti State.  The group commended the state governor for providing a non-violent environment and for personally leading the campaign for free and fair election ahead of the Saturday poll adding that the new Ekiti State governor demonstrated unique statesmanship.  In the release signed by two programme officers of the monitoring exercise Taiwo Adeleye and Fred Ojinika said the results of the election expressed the will of the people.  The rights coalition said there were no violent incidents or major disturbances in all the 177 wards, local governments and in all the polling units, adding that the development underlines the importance the people attach to democracy as the best alternative in governance.  “We think Nigeria needs to learn a lot from the conduct of the National Election in Ekiti State. The election materials arrived as early as 7am in 90 percent of the polling units. The party agents conducted themselves in the most civil manner without pronounced cases of skirmishes.  ‘’The security operatives were well detailed and professional in their conduct. We commend the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) officials and the police for their professional conduct during the exercise” the statement said. The group said there was lack of intimidation of voters, no vote buying while polling boxes were not snatched or destroyed during the exercise.