The commissioning of Kanawa Pharmaceutical Coordinated Wholesales Centre in Dangwauro, Zaria Road, Kano on 10 February 2023 was a landmark event that will change the structure of pharmaceutical trading and reduce the menace of drug abuse in Kano and the northern Nigeria in general. The project came to light as a result of partnership between Jaiz Bank Plc, Brains and Hammers and Kano State Government, 13 years after the National Drug Distribution Guidelines was launched by the federal government as a strategy to coordinate the drug distribution sub-sector. The guidelines aimed at modernising the handling of medicines and pharmaceutical businesses in the sub-sector. The government and its partners’ aim for the market is to provide a regulated environment where the stakeholders of the open drug market can operate their pharmaceutical business in line with international best practise to ensure that the drugs sold are kept within the required guidelines to safeguard the health of the citizens. The acceptance by Jaiz Bank Plc to be the sole financier of this significant project, signifies the commitment of the lender in not only bringing development but partnering towards the sustainability of young population and the society in general. In collaboration with Brains and Hammers as developers and the support of the state government, the project execution has reduced financial burden on the government and has opened opportunities for businesses. government alone can’t do every development project due to limited resources. The managing director, Jaiz Bank Plc Dr. Sirajo Salisu said at the commissioning of the project that as Islamic Bank, Jaiz Bank not only partners in projects for profit making but such projects must have element of problem solving in our societies. He said the Financing Model which is guided by Sharia principle- between partners is important to the project because it allows for easy ownership and payment without stressing the business owners. According to him, the Bank has a full-fledged Branch in the Market to relate with customers and business owners who would likely want to secure more facilities for future growth projections. He acknowledged the contribution and steadfastness of the former managing director, Hassan Usman, who was at the event, for believing in the project and giving it all the needed support to see the light of the day which has come to be.