All Nigeria Football Players Union (ANFPU) is engaging Nigerian youths through a cross culture core programme tagged ‘Open Fun Football Clinic’ at the British Nigeria Academy. The concept, which is about bringing together children, youth, adults and stakeholders to have fun and play football, is geared toward averts the use of over-aged players for cadet national teams. UEFA Licensed Coach Anders Levisen, alongside Nigerian Coaches tutored the students on fun in football like shooting, control, endurance, flexibility and focus. Speaking to newsmen on the sideline of the training, Levisen lauded the enthusiasm of the Nigerian coaches and the students for the training. “I am amazed with the zeal of the coaches and students, and I have told them the enormous benefits in football. It must be fun and enjoyable aparts from the competitive nature in professional football. The basic rules about football are the essential ingredient in the game,” Levisen said. Some of the students who attended the Fun Football Clinic and drilled in several areas of football techniques had a memorable experience. “My name is Yahaya Musa. I learnt how to control the ball. How to be focused and what it takes to be a good player. I enjoyed the programme,” he said. For Esther Audu, “I thank God I was selected to be part of this workshop. I would have missed it.” On his part, chairman, Board of Trustee of All Nigeria Football Players Union, Mr Chikelue Iloenyosi, said the workshop was part of ANFPU`s vision to train coaches at the grassroots. “Am so happy that we have hit the ground running. We are committed to helping coaches in Nigeria to achieve their dreams.” Former International and Super Eagles coordinator, Patrick Pascal was equally delighted that ANFPU used the programme to promote football for all. “I played football at the highest level so I know the benefits of it. These young kids could be Jay Jay Okocha’s tomorrow so they should be encouraged through any means. Excited by the turnout of coaches and students, President of Ratels Sports Development Foundation, Barr Paul Edeh commended organisers for putting together the programme, adding that for coaching to thrive in Nigeria, there is need for consistently upgrading the knowledge of coaches. Certificates of participation were handed out to the coaches after the workshop that lasted for three days. 