The United States Government Exchange Alumni Association (USGEAA), has sought for improved collaboration between Bulgaria and its alumni in Nigeria. The USGEAA is an umbrella body of over 30 Alumni groups composed of thorough-bred professionals leading the pack in their various fields of endeavor and changing the immediate communities they find themselves. With more than 24,000 members found across the entire country. its members have made their marks in Fashion, Digital Tech, Food processing, agriculture, Academia, Medicine, Politics, Media, visual Arts among others. Speaking at a symposium event tagged: ‘A Day With The Ambassador’ featuring the Bulgarian Ambassador to Nigeria, Amb. Yanko Yordanov, the president, United States Government Exchange Alumni Association, Mike Okwoche said the association was established in 2017 by the United States mission in Nigeria, the USGEAA continues to reflect the cooperation and friendship that exists between the U.S. and Nigeria which manifests through opportunities in Human capital development, youth empowerment, gender-based advocacy, skill development, training and mentoring, collaboration and partnerships, trade development, research. He stated that “we are aware of the robust friendship between Nigeria and Bulgaria spanning many decades. various ways we cooperate and work together as friendly countries and in taking that friendship even deeper; today I open the doors of our alumni to you; Come in meet a fresh set of Nigerians, who are motivated, passionate and ready to partner in diverse economic and social endeavour.” Also, the keynote speaker, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, Prof. Edward Oyewo said that “I am a bonafide member of this products. This represent great opportunity, as it presents inter-countries relationship between Nigeria and USA, there is capacity building, various opportunity, which is not limited to Nigerians as other countries will participate.” Publicity Secretary of USGEAA, added that “this programme is to let our alumina members knows that there is a relation between Nigeria and Bulgaria. Our member can study in Bulgaria and there is a scholarship opened for them. “We have seen where a lot of Nigerians travelled abroad to gain various skills but Bulgaria is also another country Nigerians can explore to get equip with adequate skills.”