It is now few weeks to the governorship election in the country when Nigerians will elect governors that will steer the affairs of their states for four years. In Gombe State, Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya is seeking second term and I believe that we should all rally round him to enable him govern the state again. Why Governor Inuwa Again? I have copious answers why he should be voted again in March for another term of four years. Gombe State like everyone knows is still a young state that is not older than 27 years. As such, it requires a focused and visionary leader that will initiate and execute development projects to make the state a progressive one and a good city to live in the comity of states. Of course! the governor should be supported by all and sundry across the divides to come back as the chief executive of the state in view of his performance in the first tenure and the numerous projects he initiated and or completed within the period under review. But let me review and enumerate some of the projects carried out by the governor which I think he deserves second term to consolidate on the gains. Well, everyone who is eligible to vie for the governorship seat is permitted by the constitution to do so and if he has anything to offer for the state, he can be elected. But in this election, I fervently believe that there is need for continuity of the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration led by Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya in Gombe State. This is to ensure the sustenance of his good legacies that will accelerate the development and advancement of our dear state in the next four years. For the sake of records, let me highlight some of these legacies although every enlightened citizen of the state is wary of them. One of these great projects is the multi billion naira Muhammadu Buhari Industrial Park built along Yamaltu/Deba local government. The project which is almost completed will attract investors to the state from across the nation and beyond. It will boost business activities in the state, create jobs to youths, improve internal revenue of the state and revitalise the economy of the state and by extension fasten our development as a state. Inuwa needs to complete this visionary project and make it a reality. This can be done when he comes again after the governorship polls. To beautify Gombe State and make movement of people and vehicles easy especially at night in the state capital, the governor has provided solar street lights within the major roads in the state capital. As part of efforts to ensure fairness, equity among the electorates scattered in various local government areas, he initiated the construction of at least 100 kilometres roads in all the 11 local governments of the state. Some of these roads were completed, some were ongoing while others awarded. There is the need for these works too to be actualised for if they are done, they will develop the areas.  This calls for the re-election of the governor. Erosion is a major problem faced by the state, there are over 200 active gullies in parts of the state which destroy houses and displace the owners every raining seasons. To curb it, the governor came up with a programme tagged ‚Gombe Goes Green (3G project) where four million trees are being planted to help in controlling the erosion. This project also needs to be sustained by the governor. On education, he built many schools in places that lack them and upgraded those that needs upgrade. One of the new schools worthy of mention is the ultra modern nursery, primary and junior secondary school in Kumbiya-Kumbiya community of the state that hitherto lacked any public learning facility. The school has befitting libraries, classes, toilets, sports facilities and offices. It is a magnificent edifice sited in a community predominantly occupied by low income earners. The development has without gainsaying put smiles on the faces of the residents of the place. Another school that attracted encomiums on the governor is the newly built storey building Almajiri School in Yelenguruza community as part of succour and reform to the Almajiri education system. In the new school, children will learn Qur‘anic recitation, basics of western education and skills as it has no only classes but skills acquisition rooms where different trades and occupations are being taught to the children. This is meant to address the problem of child begging associated with the Almajiri system. Prominent personalities including the sultan of Sokoto, His eminence Sa‘ad Abubakar III attended the commissioning of this model Almajiri school. Health is wealth, without good health care delivery, there will be no meaningful development. Mindful of that, Governor Inuwa has made sure each of the 114 wards of the state has a functional primary health centre. Construction of new General Hospitals in Kumo and Kaltungo as well as renovation of General Hospital in Bajoga. Next to health is security of the people. The governor has improved internal security in the state and has done well in addressing thuggery perpetrated by ‚Kalare boys‘. He established ministry of internal security and provided special jobs for the youth to mitigate restiveness and redundancy. The special jobs were provided under the newly established Gombe State Security, Traffic and Environmental Corps (GOSTEC). Not less than 500 youths were recruited into the corps. Still on the youth employment, he introduced Citizenship and Leadership Training program for youth at the training centre at Boltongo, which will also serve as NYSC Orientation Camp, and gave 1, 000 tricycles known as KEKE NAPEPS on loans to many youths for commercial use. Within this year, he flagged off water expansion project to improve water supply in the state that has been grappling with natural water scarcity. Over N11 billion was sacrificed for the project. The project targets to establish five more water booster stations to provide water to places like Tumfure, Investment quarters, labour quarters and parts of Akko local government. In view of the aforesaid reasons and many more not mentioned,  re-electing Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya in the upcoming election is the best decision. – Arc Aminu, SSA Technical to Governor Inuwa writes from Gombe 