Anyone that is regular at high-profile events of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) must be familiar with a pretty singer that usually performs to entertain guests. The singer is Edo state-born, American trained Riches Otukpe who is a graduate of Geology with a second degree in Economics. She started singing at PDP events about 17 years ago while doing her national youth service in Government House Bayelsa, when former President Goodluck Jonathan was the governor. She also worked with ex-President Jonathan on a project called Commitment Collaboration and Care (CCC),for those in need.
She also had a project on children’s awareness to live and stay healthy. When Jonathan moved to Abuja as Vice President from Bayelsa, Riches was one of those that moved to work and support him at the national level. She was the former Public Relations officer of Performing Musicians Associations of Nigeria (PMAN) Bayelsa state chapter. Riches has been a voice in music for PDP at the national level since 2010,and was invited by an ex chairman of the party to be the official singer of the PDP.
She has had several performances at party events and conventions. Her attachment and affinity for the PDP, was the driving force for her permanent relocation to Nigeria in 2017. Riches has staged several performances in Bayelsa including the Three Armed road walk held by ex President Jonathan. She has performed at events organized by almost all Bayelsa governors from GEJ, to incumbent Governor Diri, supporting them in their campaigns with her music. She has also performed with artists like Onyenka Owenu, Orits Wiliki, Dede Mabawoku, Charley Boy’s Wife, Daniel Wilson, Timi Dakolo, Timaya, Sammy Okposo of blessed memory, Omawunmi, Wande Coal, Paul Play Dairo, Dr Sid, Tunde Style Plus, M.I Abaga,Prince, J-Martins, Jodie, Harry Song, Davido, Dr Sid, Neato-C, Flavour, Ice-Price and more. Riches is a member of PDP Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), State PCC and Women PCC, where she has been campaigning and canvassing for votes to ensure that she wins her polling unit for the Atiku/Okowa ticket. The singer has a Pet project and a foundation that cares, caters and provides for the sick, in order to put smiles on their faces.