 The former chairman of Zenith Bank Plc, Sir Steve Bamidele Omojafor; chairman Audience Measurement Board, Mr. Tolu Ogunkoya and Sustainability director, Coca-Cola Bottling Company, Mr. Ekuma Eze, are expected to feature, at the fourth edition of ‘The Industry Summit/Awards, as speakers. The summit theme: How Marketers Should Handle 2023 is scheduled to hold on Friday, March 31st, 2023 in Ikeja, Lagos and would be chaired by Sir Steve Bamidele Omojafor. The regional GMD, OMG West & Central Africa (WeCA)/Chairman, Audience Measurement Board,Mr. Tolu Ogunkoya, while speaking on the topic ‘Turn Data to Action: How Marketers Can Rationalize Performance Measurement & Drive Efficiencies with Intelligence’ and Corporate Affairs & Sustainability director at Coca-Cola Bottling Company, Mr. Ekuma Eze, to speak on ‘FMCG: Impact of Government Policy Shift on the Industry.’ The annual event, which is the initiative of The Industry Newspaper, will bring together professionals in marketing, communications, technology, banking, manufacturing, advertising, public relations, government agencies, students among others with the aim of sharing ideas and network. Commenting further on the summit, the Editor-in-Chief of The Industry Newspaper, Goddy Ofose said, the theme resonates with the industry particularly as 2023 is a general election year and marketers would be either confused or convinced to execute their plans. “Data has become a critical element in planning marketing campaigns in the Nigerian marketing communication ecosystem therefore, the importance of data mining cannot be overemphasized. The choice of Mr. Ogunkoya who is currently the chairman of Audience Measurement Board could not be questioned because the paper in itself talks about the performance measurement through data,” Ofose said. In the second paper, he stated that, Mr. Eze, a renowned bottler who is currently working as the biggest soft-drink bottler in West Africa is the best fit for the paper. “Recently, the Nigerian government implemented an excise tax of N10 per litre on sweetened beverages as part of efforts to prevent and discourage excessive consumption of sugar and this has reflected in the upward price review and other ripple effect in the industry.” “Looking at this subject matter becomes necessary and stakeholders are seeking platforms to adequately discuss it,” Ofose added.  