Nigerians have been urged not to allow the challenges of the present moment to discourage them but use the opportunity presented by the forthcoming general election to turn around the narratives. A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Hon. Bamidele Faparusi who stated urged the people to come out en masse and vote for the party presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to effect the needed change they desire and deserve. Faparusi who regretted the untold hardship brought on Nigerians by the present fuel crisis and the resigned naira notes policy admonished Nigerians to be very sensitive at this time not to play themselves into the hands of the evil manipulators who does not mean well for the country. The former Commissioner for Infrastructure and Public Utilities in the State urged the electorate to keep fate with  party in the polls in spite of the perceived gang up against the presidential candidate and  ploy to whip up  protest votes against him. Faparusi who spoke in Ado Ekiti during a chat with newsmen  on the state of the nation posited that  Nigerians are becoming frustrated by the way and manner the redesigned naira notes policy is being implemented. The former House of Representative member, who represented Ekiti South  Federal Constituency 2,  said APC in Ekiti state will give Tinubu highest percentage of votes in the election. “The evil manipulators that does not mean well for Nigerians  know that Asiwaju Tinubu, is not the president that they can control. “I want to criticize the redesigned of the naira, it’s not APC policy, the CBN has its own autonomy under the law to do what is right, to regulate the economy, the financial sector, but doing so at this critical time, I want to believe it has some political undertone. “It’s an ill time policy, poorly implemented that has put Nigerians into hardship, irrespective of their political party” “The APC as a party, the government of President Buhari, has tried his possible but there are a lot of concerns apart from the recent development of fuel scarcity, and redesigned of the naira, that has left everybody surprised”. He called on the government, to remove fuel subsidy once and for all so that at the end of the day, there would be solutions to the fuel crisis in Nigeria. 