The general-secretary of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Dr Mohammed Sanusi has charged all 29 Nigerian referees who received their badges yesterday to officiate in FIFA matches to take to heart the fine ethos of fairness, firmness and efficiency in their various assignments. He congratulates the referees on their feats, saying the new leadership of NFF is determined to write a new positive story about Nigeria referees and refereeing. “I congratulate you all on this very special and important day in your career. I want to admonish you to take to heart the ethos of fairness, firmness and efficiency in every task you are assigned. You are ambassadors of our great country at any match venue and you must always have that at the back of your minds. “The new NFF administration is determined to write a new positive story about Nigeria referees and refereeing. It is always painful to see Nigeria Clubs crashing out of continental competitions so early. Let us tell ourselves the truth; these happen because some of those teams that qualify to represent us in those competitions are somewhat aided one way or the other and not that they merit their qualification. They get exposed when they get to the continental stage.” While commending the level of officiating so far in the ongoing Nigeria Premier Football League, Sanusi assured that those who have been suspended and summoned for questioning will face stiff sanctions if found culpable. “It is sad that championship after continental championship, we hardly get to see Nigeria referees listed for action. It makes me unhappy because I know we have some of the best referees in Africa, if not the entire world. You just need to up your game, stay on the right lane, apply the rules strictly and shun undue influences and attempts at compromising your professional integrity.” FIFA Referees: Ogabor Joseph; Nurudeen Abubakr; Quadri Adebimpe; Kassim Abdulsalam; Abdullahi Abubakar; Bashir Salihu; Grema Mohammed FIFA Assistant Referees: Samuel Pwadutakam; Usman Abdulmajeed; Efosa Igudia Celestine; Hope Igho; Tejiri Digbori; Muhammed Yakubu; Tijjani Ahmad FIFA Beach Soccer Referees: Jelili Ogunmuyiwa; Fawole Olawale; Olayinka Olajide; Rabiu Ahmad FIFA Futsal Referees: Bello Zuru Alhassan; Musa Dung Davou; Paul Umuago; Ukah Ndubuisi FIFA Women Referees: Ndidi Patience; Hannah Eliagwu; Olufunmilayo Alaba; Yemisi Akintoye FIFA Women Assistant Referees: Mfon Friday Akpan; Beauty Kabenda Terah; Abibat Yusuf. 