All Progressives Congress (APC) has described as blatantly false and reckless media reports suggesting that it is spearheading the postponement of the 2023 general election. According to the governing party, the shadowy media reports which have generated needless anxiety and speculations is fake news. “We stand ready for the general election, and remain confident that Nigerians will overwhelmingly renew our mandate in a peaceful, free and credible electoral contest,” it stated. In a statement signed by its national publicity secretary, Barr Felix Morka, the APC said President Muhammadu Buhari has left no one in doubt about his unshakable commitment to leaving behind “a befitting legacy of credible, free and fair election,l.” Morka said it was for this reason that the president enacted unprecedented electoral reform and innovation that has placed the country in good stead to deliver 2023 general election and consolidate the democratic process. He continued: “The report is blatantly false and reckless, and bears no iota of credibility. Beyond its loud headline, the report offers no substantive justifying content aside from its intended purpose of misleading and causing needless anxiety and speculations regarding the upcoming elections. “Our general election is matter of extreme national importance bordering on national security and corporate integrity of our country. It is not and should not become a matter for idle, rash or insensitive speculation by the media or any institution for that matter.” “On record, under President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership, our party continues to wage the most extensive and vibrant campaign in the history of our nascent democracy seeking to elect our visionary Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, his running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima and our Party’s governorship, national and state legislative flag bearers into office. “This is in direct contrast to the lackluster and incoherent campaign of the opposition parties that have placed nothing before the electorate except their vile merchandise of lies, innuendoes and hate propaganda against the APC.” 