The Imo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called for the immediate redeployment of all heads of security agencies in the state for alleged subjectivity. Publicity Secretary of Imo PDP, Collins Opuruozor made the call while addressing newsmen at the party secretariat in Owerri yesterday. According to him, despite repeated attacks and complaints to security agencies in the state, the operatives were biased and planning to arrest them ahead of the elections. Opuruozor said “It is now clear that PDP members and candidates are generally endangered in Imo State, and the current security leadership in the State cannot provide a neural and fair atmosphere for a democratic electoral contest to take place. Already, our party has intercepted intelligence about a plot to whisk away most prominent leaders, members and candidates of the party ahead of the elections. “In view of that, we demand the immediate redeployment of all heads of security agencies in Imo State. Further, the Federal Government should establish an independent panel of inquiry to unravel the Imo killings and unearth the real identities of those behind the so-called unknown gunmen in the State”, the PDP said. They called on the “Chief of Army Staff, Inspector General of Police and Director General of the State Security Service to intervene without further delay. The sponsors and perpetrators of the attacks on Ikenga Ugochinyere must be arrested and brought  to book with the urgency of now”. According to him, the state had become like the Hobbesian pre-political state, in which “life is nasty, solitary, brutish, poor and short”, saying the PDP wass greatly pained by the situation. Further, party argued that President Mohammadu Buhari promise of free and fair election was threatened by what they described as “the existence of state-backed militia groups and state-sanctioned attacks on opposition figures”. They called on Ideato people, PDP members and supporters of spokesperson of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) Ikenga Ugochinyere Imo to stand strong and never allow forces of darkness prevail over their land, saying they should not yield to the threats and intimidation saying they should come out en masse to vote for the party. The party reiterated their allegation of attacks from Governor Hope Uzodimma and his aide, Mr Chinasa Nwaneri on Ikenga saying despite their petition and protest to the police, nothing had been done. 