The relative peace witnessed in the Handball Federation of Nigeria (HFN) seems to be at the verge of rupture as the power blocks in Lagos and Abuja set to return to the trenches. Despite the truce to douse the spate of litigations that have somehow threatened the serenity in the handball family for sometime now, the gladiators have stuck to their gun.In one of the cases, already decided, an FCT High Court presided over by Justice Alfred Okpe sacked the athletes’ representative on the HFN Board, Joseph Udale and ordered fresh elections. But not satisfied with the ruling of the court, Udale vowed to appeal the ruling which he described as miscarriage of justice. Also, another court ruling on October 19, 2022, in a case *FHC/ABJ/CS/1356/2021* instituted by former Nigerian international handball player and referee, Benjamin Ewaoche Obe against HFN President Sam Ocheho, IGP, Sports Ministry and two anti corruption agencies; got blown apart. The twist manifested after the Mr. Ocheho opted to appeal the ruling of Justice I. E. Ekwo, rather than allow the sleeping dog lie as agreed by the warring parties. Angered by the development, the claimant, Mr Ewaoche Obe, hinted at a cross appeal to get the court to grant his prayers, at the lower Court, for EFCC and ICPC to compel the HFN President Ocheho to provide informations on transactions he has made on behalf of the HFN since assumption on duty 2017 and up to 2021. While Obe insisting on Mr. Ocheho to make public all of his transactions as HFN President, including details of bank accounts operated, sponsorship money and government funds received and how they are spent; Mr. Ocheho believes the judgement of the lower court missed the point, and can’t be trusted. He said grouse was that haven given the financial information at congress and also at board meetings up to 2019; he is absolutely sure, that he has fulfilled his duties in compliance with the FOI Act, and does not agree with the ruling that makes it obligatory, for him to hand the same information to Mr. Obe in his personal capacity. 