 A lawmaker, Hon. Dennis Idahosa (APC-Edo), has urged  people of Ovia Federal Constituency who he represents in the National Assembly to shun retrogressive politics as they elect new representatives on February 25. The lawmaker who made the call in Ovah, Utoka ward, Ovia North East local government area of Edo State while inaugurating one of the school buildings he attracted to the area, also appealed to his constituents to avoid sentiment as they cast their votes for their preferred candidates. Idahosa who chairs the House Committee on Legislative Compliance,  said his performance in office within the past three years had placed him above every other of his opponents in Ovia federal constituency. The lawmaker who said he had over 87 projects across all the 23 wards that make up the constituency, noted that prior to assuming the people’s mandate in the National Assembly, Ovia was alienated by the government of the state. He noted that the area took the back burner in terms of infrastructure, social and economy development. “That is why I am appealing to our conscience not to play retrogressive politics in order not to go back to the dark days.  The progress we have made these past three years have been an eye opener to us. “Our intervention in the education sector by constructing several classrooms have improved learning and teaching environment for both students and teachers. “We have also made giant strides in water provision, electrification and more importantly, women and youths empowerment programmes. “These giant strides should not be truncated on the altar of retrogressive politics and I am sure Ovia people are a lot wiser now not to be swayed with mere promises being dished out by my opponents, including those that have had the opportunity of enjoying the people’s mandate,” he stated. He advised the people to be wary of those who come to them with the intention of seeking their support by playing up whatever sentiment on their card. He added; “Being sentimental cannot give us the Ovia of our dream neither can it empower our youths and women. “While they seek your support by going sentimental, ask them to show you record of their performance in previous offices they held in your behalf.” While noting that he had achieved a lot in his first term in office, he said when reelected for a second term, the people stand to benefit more of the past three years.